summary: 
 Clinton acknowledged that U.S. intelligence officials are not yet certain that the suspicious underground construction project in North Korea is nuclear related. Clinton acknowledged that U.S. intelligence officials are not yet certain that the underground construction project in North Korea is nuclear related. ``It raises a strong suspicion,'' Clinton said at a joint news conference with Kim at the Blue House, the presidential mansion overlooking the capital. U.S. special envoy Charles Kartman on Friday retracted an assessment he made Thursday that there was ``compelling evidence'' that North Korea is building an underground nuclear facility. Clinton rejected the idea of compensation. Directing his remarks at North Korea, Clinton noted the significance of a new tourism deal that is bringing South Koreans to the North on cruise ships _ an arrangement touted by Kim as a sign the North may be opening up to its 1950s Korean War enemy. In his meeting with Korean community and business leaders at Seoul's National Folklore Museum, Clinton praised South Korea's progress in recovering from its financial crisis. On a darker note, he mentioned recent tensions over Asian steel exports to the United States, which have skyrocketed this year at great cost to the domestic U.S. steelmakers. Japanese steel is the biggest problem, but South Korean steel exports also are on the rise. ``We have to be sensitive if the price of doing that is to basically erase'' an entire sector of the U.S. economy, Clinton said. 

 anti-summary: 
 President Kim Dae-jung, appearing with Clinton at a news conference, pledged to ``spare no effort in supporting the U.S. endeavor'' to resolve the nuclear question. Economics and security are Clinton's twin themes on a five-day Asia trip that began in Japan. Economics and security are Clinton's twin themes on a five-day Asia trip that began in Japan. ``It raises a strong suspicion,'' Clinton said at a joint news conference with Kim at the Blue House, the presidential mansion overlooking the capital. That deal would be shattered if the suspect site turned out to be a clandestine nuclear project. In meetings this week in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, U.S. officials were rebuffed in their request to see the suspicious site, which American intelligence officials fear could be a secret effort to revive the North's nuclear weapons program. ``We must require full access and ways to ascertain the nature and the purposes of the construction site,'' Kim said. '' He also said the North must limit its missile development, citing the ``great shock'' in Japan when the North Koreans test-fired a missile its way Aug. 31. '' Kim said his government would support U.S. efforts to resolve the nuclear question. Directing his remarks at North Korea, Clinton noted the significance of a new tourism deal that is bringing South Koreans to the North on cruise ships _ an arrangement touted by Kim as a sign the North may be opening up to its 1950s Korean War enemy.

 textrank summary:
 President Kim Dae-jung, appearing with Clinton at a news conference, pledged to ``spare no effort in supporting the U.S. endeavor'' to resolve the nuclear question. He called for full access for U.S. inspectors at a North Korean underground facility and said the North must not develop missiles. Clinton acknowledged that U.S. intelligence officials are not yet certain that the suspicious underground construction project in North Korea is nuclear related. Clinton acknowledged that U.S. intelligence officials are not yet certain that the underground construction project in North Korea is nuclear related. That deal would be shattered if the suspect site turned out to be a clandestine nuclear project. Kim, who has moved South Korea to a ``sunshine'' policy of engaging North Korea on cultural and economic fronts, was firm in saying his government supports Clinton on the nuclear issue. ``If it is, in fact, proven that it is nuclear related, we should demand immediate close down. U.S. special envoy Charles Kartman on Friday retracted an assessment he made Thursday that there was ``compelling evidence'' that North Korea is building an underground nuclear facility. '' Kim said his government would support U.S. efforts to resolve the nuclear question. The North Koreans have denied the underground construction site has any nuclear purpose, and have proposed a dlrs 300 million payment for allowing inspections.
