summary: 
 On the first of two days in South Korea, Clinton also held a roundtable discussion with business leaders to hear their prescriptions for putting the nation's economy back on track. Economics and security are Clinton's twin themes on a five-day Asia trip that began in Japan. ``We need access to it. ``We must require full access and ways to ascertain the nature and the purposes of the construction site,'' Kim said. In a dinner toast, Kim said that despite tensions, ``North Korea is cautiously but noticeably taking measures to increase interaction and cooperation between the South and the North. ``I believe Asia will emerge from this present crisis more prosperous, more stable, more democratic _ thanks in no small measure to Korea's example. The president listened to songs off stage before his brother introduced the president as ``a very special person. In meetings this week in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, U.S. officials were rebuffed in their request to see the suspicious underground site, which American intelligence officials fear could be a secret effort to revive the North's nuclear weapons program. Directing his remarks at North Korea, Clinton noted the significance of a new tourism deal that is bringing South Koreans to the North on cruise ships _ an arrangement touted by Kim as a sign the North may be opening up to its 1950s Korean War enemy. He also planned to address American troops at Osan Air Base from a U-2 spy plane hangar. 

 anti-summary: 
 President Kim Dae-jung, appearing with Clinton at a news conference, pledged that his government would ``spare no effort in supporting the U.S. endeavor'' to resolve the nuclear question. Clinton acknowledged that U.S. intelligence officials are not yet certain that the suspicious underground construction project in North Korea is nuclear related. Kim, who has moved South Korea to a ``sunshine'' policy of engaging North Korea on cultural and economic fronts, firmly said his government supports Clinton on the nuclear issue. '' He also said the North must limit its missile development, citing the ``great shock'' in Japan when the North Koreans test-fired a missile its way Aug. 31. '' And Clinton saluted Seoul's battle against Asia's economic woes. '' After the state dinner, Clinton made a surprise late-night stop at a concert at the Sejong Culture Center where his younger brother, Roger, and his band were performing. In meetings this week in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, U.S. officials were rebuffed in their request to see the suspicious underground site, which American intelligence officials fear could be a secret effort to revive the North's nuclear weapons program. Kim said his government would ``spare no effort in supporting the U.S. endeavor'' to resolve the nuclear question. The North Koreans have denied the underground construction site has any nuclear purpose, and it has demanded a dlrs 300 million payment for proving that. To underscore the U.S. military commitment to South Korea, Clinton was scheduled to venture out of the capital on Sunday to visit U.S. Army troops at a training range north of Seoul.

 textrank summary:
 That deal would be shattered if the suspect site turned out to be a clandestine nuclear project. ``If it is, in fact, proven that it is nuclear related, we should demand immediate close down. In meetings this week in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, U.S. officials were rebuffed in their request to see the suspicious underground site, which American intelligence officials fear could be a secret effort to revive the North's nuclear weapons program. U.S. special envoy Charles Kartman said Thursday after the Pyongyang talks that there was ``compelling evidence'' of an underground nuclear facility. But in a statement distributed by the U.S. Embassy here Saturday, Kartman backtracked, saying instead that the United States lacks ``conclusive evidence'' the site is a nuclear facility. ``There is strong information that makes us suspicious, but we lack conclusive evidence that the intended purpose of the underground site is nuclear related and, if so, what type of nuclear facility it might be,'' Kartman said, offering a ``clarification'' of his earlier remarks. Kim said his government would ``spare no effort in supporting the U.S. endeavor'' to resolve the nuclear question. The North Koreans have denied the underground construction site has any nuclear purpose, and it has demanded a dlrs 300 million payment for proving that. To risk that kind of cooperation _ and progress with America on other issues _ by stonewalling on the suspected nuclear site is contrary to the North's long-term interests, he said. To underscore the U.S. military commitment to South Korea, Clinton was scheduled to venture out of the capital on Sunday to visit U.S. Army troops at a training range north of Seoul.
