summary: 
  This city has always kept an unwritten list of foreign leaders _ dictators, unfriendly authoritarians and consistently annoying allies _ who it thinks can make an enormous contribution to peace, security or America's agenda by taking early retirement, at a minimum. He recently imprisoned his Western-thinking finance minister, Anwar Ibrahim, who has suddenly become Asia's most visible jailed dissident. Whatever the wisdom of the Gore's words, they raised the question of what it takes these days for the world's most powerful nation to begin publicly suggesting that it's time for a nettlesome leader to go. His government, taking a page out of the Saddam playbook, suggested last week that if the United States really wants to look at a mountain tunnel that the Pentagon believes is a nuclear installation in the making, it should write a check for another $300 million. ``When they really want to push someone out, it is because that country is part of a larger strategic concern at the time. He's a prime example of how opposing Washington's political and economic agenda for an interconnected world can move a leader from the list of authoritarians whom Washington tolerates to the list of authoritarians who have outlived their usefulness. But he also seemed eminently tolerable long after the Cold War was over. He turned his country into a model of competitiveness, and Malaysia became the exemplar of the ``big emerging markets'' that Clinton's Commerce Department touted until things went sour last year. But he is no terrorist or killer _ U.S. companies have flocked to his country, and say they want to stay _ and his iron control over political discourse is no stronger than in neighboring Singapore. Gore leapt on that opportunity _ particularly striking because, in the case of Indonesia earlier this year, it took the administration months to come to the conclusion that President Suharto had to go.

 anti-summary: 
 President Richard M. Nixon and his advisers infamously agreed at a secret meeting in the '70s that the best way to deal with the government of Salvador Allende Gossens in Chile was to ``make the economy scream. In very different situations, in opposite corners of the world, the United States spoke loudly because it can't find a stick. He recently imprisoned his Western-thinking finance minister, Anwar Ibrahim, who has suddenly become Asia's most visible jailed dissident. But Mahathir is no Saddam, not by a long shot. Gore's aides insist that his speech was a call for reform, not a demand that Mahathir step down. '' The Malaysian government called it ``disgusting'' and an ``interference in internal affairs. Some leaders mysteriously escape mention, like Kim Jong Il of North Korea. Mahathir, however, is far more complex case. Sure, he was always prickly. Just this summer, U.S. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin paid him an ostensibly friendly, if strained, visit and made no reference to human rights.

 textrank summary:
 Sunday, hours after he called off an attack on Iraq, Clinton finally volunteered the obvious, that the focus of U.S. policy toward Iraq is the removal of President Saddam Hussein _ what Clinton called supporting the ``forces of change in Iraq. The bigger surprise came Monday, when polite-to-a-fault Al Gore used his visit to Malaysia for an Asian economic summit meeting to throw U.S. support behind protesters calling for ``reformasi,'' the code word on the streets of Kuala Lumpur for dumping Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamed. But Mahathir is no Saddam, not by a long shot. Gore's aides insist that his speech was a call for reform, not a demand that Mahathir step down. But the country itself usually doesn't have great strategic weight'' _ it's another matter to call for a change of leadership in Beijing or Moscow _ ``and it helps if there is some kind of domestic opposition that we can point to. '' Clinton's call for Saddam's ouster last weekend created barely a ripple because, after all, he is a proven murderer and an avid stockpiler of anthrax and plutonium (even if Brent Scowcroft, who was President George Bush's national security adviser, insisted last week that Saddam nowadays is simply ``an irritant, an annoyance, a pest and a problem, but not a threat to the region at the moment''). He has never been accused of enormous corruption. Sure, he was always prickly. Just this summer, U.S. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin paid him an ostensibly friendly, if strained, visit and made no reference to human rights. Gore leapt on that opportunity _ particularly striking because, in the case of Indonesia earlier this year, it took the administration months to come to the conclusion that President Suharto had to go.
