summary: 
  President Clinton made an unusual, direct appeal to North Korea on Saturday to set aside any nuclear ambitions in favor of strengthening ties to South Korea and the United States. The appeal came during a meeting with reporters at which he also counseled patience over Iraq's refusal to comply with a request from weapons inspectors. ``I think it's important that we not overreact here on the first day,'' Clinton said in response to reports that Iraq had balked at a request by U.N. inspectors for documents on its weapons program. But, speaking at a joint appearance with South Korean President Kim Dae Jung, Clinton called the requested documents ``quite important'' and said Iraq had ``some affirmative obligations'' to help weapons inspectors. Aides to Clinton denied that his comments represented any softening toward Iraq. They said that because the situation was still developing and the president was preparing for meetings with Kim he had not been briefed in detail on Iraq's resistance when he appeared before reporters Saturday. As Clinton and Kim delivered prepared statements and answered questions Saturday, Clinton became most animated in describing what he called ``a very beautiful picture'' that he happened to spot after turning on his hotel television on arriving in Seoul on Friday night: film of a cruise ship recently permitted to carry South Koreans on a tour into the North. The new complex is being built on a mountainside about 25 miles northeast of Yongbyon, the former North Korean nuclear research center. But he said, ``We will not tolerate any possible attempt of North Korea to proliferate nuclear weapons, missiles and other weapons of mass destruction. It may be necessary to proceed slowly with the restructuring, he said, ``but they should begin.

 anti-summary: 
 ``I think it's important that we not overreact here on the first day,'' Clinton said in response to reports that Iraq had balked at a request by U.N. inspectors for documents on its weapons program. But, speaking at a joint appearance with South Korean President Kim Dae Jung, Clinton called the requested documents ``quite important'' and said Iraq had ``some affirmative obligations'' to help weapons inspectors. Aides to Clinton denied that his comments represented any softening toward Iraq. Before leaving Washington for this five-day trip to Japan, Korea and Guam, he drew a parallel between the governments of Iraq and North Korea, saying, ``We must be no less concerned by North Korea's weapons activities. Saturday, Clinton called that site, together with North Korea's test firing in August of a missile over Japan, ``cause for deep concern. '' The Clinton administration fears that the construction site may be evidence that North Korea has abandoned a 1994 pledge to the United States to give up its nuclear weapons program in exchange for billions of dollars in aid. The North Koreans have denied that the complex is intended to help build nuclear weapons. The new complex is being built on a mountainside about 25 miles northeast of Yongbyon, the former North Korean nuclear research center. But he said, ``We will not tolerate any possible attempt of North Korea to proliferate nuclear weapons, missiles and other weapons of mass destruction. In addition to strategies for easing the Asian financial crisis, Clinton discussed North Korea during a visit to Tokyo on Thursday and Friday.

 textrank summary:
 They said that because the situation was still developing and the president was preparing for meetings with Kim he had not been briefed in detail on Iraq's resistance when he appeared before reporters Saturday. National Security Adviser Sandy Berger said the administration was consulting with other members of the U.N. Security Council about the matter. Before leaving Washington for this five-day trip to Japan, Korea and Guam, he drew a parallel between the governments of Iraq and North Korea, saying, ``We must be no less concerned by North Korea's weapons activities. '' The Clinton administration is urgently seeking to inspect a vast construction site in North Korea that it believes may be the beginnings of a nuclear weapons plant. '' The Clinton administration fears that the construction site may be evidence that North Korea has abandoned a 1994 pledge to the United States to give up its nuclear weapons program in exchange for billions of dollars in aid. But they have demanded that the United States pay $300 million to inspect it, a request rejected this week by a U.S. delegation to Pyongyang, the North Korean capital. '' The Clinton administration plans to resume negotiating with North Korea over inspecting the site in December. In addition to strategies for easing the Asian financial crisis, Clinton discussed North Korea during a visit to Tokyo on Thursday and Friday. The administration has been criticized in Congress and in this region for letting its policy on North Korea drift, but Clinton called that policy a ``clear-eyed mix'' of diplomacy and deterrence. '' On Sunday, Clinton plans to visit some of the 37,000 American troops stationed here. 
