summary: 
 The industry trade press was full of worried articles: which system was going to become the new standard? With Gates standing uncomfortably at his side, James Cannavino, an IBM divisional president, said that the two companies wanted to ``clear the air. ``For a significant case, we might call the White House and say `An hour from now we are going to hold a press conference. At this time, I do not think I should depart from that policy on this case, even though it obviously will have a big impact on an important sector of our economy. In Rule's opinion, the administration would be foolish to involve itself, even if it were politically acceptable to do so. I would be hard pressed to explain why they would do that. But as has happened so often in the following years, turns in the market made the initial inquiry irrelevant. The agency, his letter said, was now trying to determine whether Microsoft was using its dominant position in operating-systems software to stifle competition in other areas. That same year, Justice Department investigators showed up at the offices of Netscape Communications Corp. for the first time to ask questions about their next line of inquiry. In a letter to the Justice Department, Netscape said that Microsoft was using its dominance in personal-computer operating systems to force or persuade computer makers to favor Microsoft's browser, used to explore the World Wide Web, over the one marketed by Netscape.

 anti-summary: 
 '' Asked if he believed that policy had changed under the Clinton administration, he said: ``Not really. ``For a significant case, we might call the White House and say `An hour from now we are going to hold a press conference. Beard always denied writing it. And Gore, who generally represents the administration on technology issues, has never commented at all. Then, a few months later, the Justice Department decided to pick up the case. ``Usually a case would be two or three people complaining and a few documents,'' he said. Even with the agreement, the government investigations continued. The Microsoft Network never grew particularly popular while America Online prospered and grew. In a letter to the Justice Department, Netscape said that Microsoft was using its dominance in personal-computer operating systems to force or persuade computer makers to favor Microsoft's browser, used to explore the World Wide Web, over the one marketed by Netscape. A Federal District Court judge agreed, but an Appeals Court panel overturned that ruling this summer.

 textrank summary:
  The government's antitrust scrutiny of Microsoft, the world's largest independent software company, has spanned Republican and Democratic administrations and involved hundreds of government lawyers and investigators. In interviews, more than a dozen current and former senior antitrust officials _ whether friends of the government or of Microsoft _ all say the Justice Department's antitrust suit is a natural outgrowth of the previous investigations. There was no communication between antitrust and other branches of government. ``But never the White House,'' he said. '' In the case of Microsoft, neither President Clinton nor Vice President Al Gore has ever volunteered a comment. ``They hadn't brought a case in years. ``Usually a case would be two or three people complaining and a few documents,'' he said. Even with the agreement, the government investigations continued. In May 1995, Anne Bingaman, the assistant attorney general who headed the antitrust division, remarked: ``We get complaints about Microsoft all the time. ``A good part of this case is just Round II of the case we dealt with in Round I,'' in the early in the 1990s, Litan said.
