summary: 
  Shortly before the government filed its antitrust suit against Microsoft Corp. in May, Joel Klein, the assistant attorney general in charge of the Justice Department's antitrust division, met with a Silicon Valley executive. The executive recalls telling Klein that unless a case went beyond the Internet browser market, it would have little effect on Microsoft's power to stifle competition across the computer industry. Klein replied that he understood the computer executive's concerns. But he said time was running short and the strongest evidence in hand involved Microsoft's battle against Netscape Communications Corp. in the market for the so-called browser software used for navigating the Internet. ``This is a Netscape case,'' the executive recalls Klein saying. But five months later, the case that the government is bringing to trial on Monday extends well beyond Netscape and the browser war to embrace what it described in a recent court filing as ``a broad pattern of anti-competitive conduct'' by Microsoft. But the government recently asked that the judge hold a separate hearing on remedies, if it wins the case. ``So it has taken a blunderbuss approach of scrambling to throw everything it can find _ even evidence the Justice Department has had for years _ into the gun barrel and see what hits. But it also prominently mentioned Microsoft's tactics against Sun Microsystems, creator of Java, an Internet programming language, and cited it as an ``example'' of Microsoft's behavior. Part of the government's evidence in the Intel-Microsoft episode is copies of the handwritten notes taken by Steven McGeady, an Intel vice president who attended the meetings, and a memo written by him on Aug. 28, 1995.

 anti-summary: 
 Netscape, the government insists, is still a prime example of the pattern _ but only one of several examples. In bringing a more ambitious, complicated case to trial than the one it filed in May, the government has chosen a high-risk strategy. But the government recently asked that the judge hold a separate hearing on remedies, if it wins the case. That ruling came in a separate case, involving the interpretation of the consent decree that Microsoft signed with the Justice Department in 1995. In the June ruling, a federal appeals court said that Microsoft could bundle its browser with its industry-standard Windows operating system and call them one product. The appeals-court ruling would seem to undercut the assertion in the government's current antitrust case that the browser and the operating system were two separate products, bundled together and given away in an effort to thwart competition in the browser market. The government contends that the arm-twisting occurred at meetings between the two companies three years ago, especially one on Aug. 2, 1995, which was attended by Andrew Grove, the Intel chairman, and Bill Gates, the Microsoft chairman. The memo, still under court seal, said that Gates ``made vague threats'' and was ``livid'' about Intel's investments in the Internet ``and wanted them stopped. The government case has also broadened, people involved in the case say, as more witnesses from the industry have been increasingly willing to testify. ``But as the strength of our case was perceived to improve, more people were willing to come forward, and things snowballed.

 textrank summary:
 ``This is a Netscape case,'' the executive recalls Klein saying. The 12-person witness list for the Justice Department and 20 states suing Microsoft reflects the new evidence added to the case since May. In bringing a more ambitious, complicated case to trial than the one it filed in May, the government has chosen a high-risk strategy. The law states that new evidence can be added to a suit after it is filed, but not new charges. But if the government wins its broadened case, the court-ordered remedies would no doubt be far tougher on Microsoft. The government contends that the arm-twisting occurred at meetings between the two companies three years ago, especially one on Aug. 2, 1995, which was attended by Andrew Grove, the Intel chairman, and Bill Gates, the Microsoft chairman. On its own, the Intel material was intriguing, but it became part of the antitrust suit only as other evidence surfaced, one person close to the case said. The government case has also broadened, people involved in the case say, as more witnesses from the industry have been increasingly willing to testify. ``But as the strength of our case was perceived to improve, more people were willing to come forward, and things snowballed. You get Intel, it's easier to get Apple and so on.
