summary: 
  The case of United States vs. Microsoft Corp., the government's most aggressive move against a monopolist in almost 25 years, is playing out against a century of antitrust laws so broadly worded and court rulings so ambiguous that both sides are citing the same rulings to support their opposing arguments. Microsoft asserts that the case is intended to give the government control over which features can be added to Windows. No one, he said, ``would challenge the right of manufacturers to tie erasers to the tip of pencils, tires to an automobile or buttons to shirts. The Justice Department says that Microsoft's practices must clear a higher hurdle: yielding ``net'' consumer benefits that are immediate and large enough to balance possible long-term harm to competition. When Aspen Skiing unilaterally canceled the agreement, its rival's revenues shriveled and the rival sued. Microsoft will also draw support from several court rulings that allowed IBM to change the design of its computers in ways that made it hard for vendors to attach peripheral equipment. A balancing test would have the courts weigh the immediate benefits to consumers of one-click access to Internet sites and of features of a bundled Windows-Explorer package versus the harm over time of diminished competition in the markets for browsers and operating systems. Microsoft will have an easier time defending itself against a charge of predation, which amounts to victimizing its customers, than it would defending itself against a charge that its bundled product does consumers slightly more harm than good. The antitrust record, says William Baxter, who headed the antitrust division under President Reagan, is littered with ``contradictory, ambiguous and sometimes nonsensical'' verdicts. He and other legal experts agree that if nothing else, that record leaves plenty of legal leeway for the Supreme Court, should it hear the Microsoft case, to stiffen the spine of the antitrust law. 

 anti-summary: 
 The case focuses on Microsoft's Windows, the operating system that controls about 90 percent of all personal computers sold today. The Justice Department says that the bundling of Explorer with Windows 95 and the inclusion of the browser as part of Windows 98 amount to ``tying,'' an illegal practice that forces customers of one product to purchase another. The simple answer is that no one knows for sure, which is why both sides can reasonably cite the same cases without fear of embarrassment. The Supreme Court ruled that Aspen Skiing had violated antitrust laws because there was no evidence its action helped consumers. The courts, he argues, never pounced on practices that resulted in lower prices or better products or service. vs. Hyde, another case cited by both sides, the Supreme Court in 1984 recognized that surgeons and anesthesiologists provide an integrated service. But Microsoft will point to a strong concurring opinion that called for a tougher standard for the government to meet when it alleges tying. The courts, Microsoft will emphasize, steer clear of redesigning technically sophisticated products. But exactly how the court will decide whether consumers are helped or hurt is up for grabs. Microsoft will have an easier time defending itself against a charge of predation, which amounts to victimizing its customers, than it would defending itself against a charge that its bundled product does consumers slightly more harm than good.

 textrank summary:
  The case of United States vs. Microsoft Corp., the government's most aggressive move against a monopolist in almost 25 years, is playing out against a century of antitrust laws so broadly worded and court rulings so ambiguous that both sides are citing the same rulings to support their opposing arguments. So which test of consumer benefits satisfies antitrust laws? The Supreme Court ruled that Aspen Skiing had violated antitrust laws because there was no evidence its action helped consumers. Here, too, the Supreme Court ruled that the exclusionary practice did nothing to benefit consumers. Indeed, in Aspen Skiing, the court even forced the monopolist to do business with its rival, a precedent that augurs well for the Justice Department, which seeks to force Microsoft to install Netscape's browser alongside its own. But Charles Rule, a legal consultant to Microsoft, says that in both cases the courts threw out exclusionary practices only because they offered no consumer benefit. Nor did the courts in either case call for balancing immediate benefits against hypothetical long-term harm. In truth, though, neither case answered what consumer benefit test should apply to product design. vs. Hyde, another case cited by both sides, the Supreme Court in 1984 recognized that surgeons and anesthesiologists provide an integrated service. But exactly how the court will decide whether consumers are helped or hurt is up for grabs.
