summary: 
  In the summer of 1995, a whiff of revolution was in the air in Silicon Valley. The Internet offered a new deal in computing, a fresh opportunity for entrepreneurs to try to break Microsoft Corp.'s firm grip on the personal computer software business. Leading the challenge was Netscape Communications Corp., whose software for browsing the World Wide Web had ignited the Internet boom. Netscape chairman James Clark spoke boldly of attacking Microsoft head-on. He borrowed imagery from the movie ``Star Wars,'' referring to Microsoft as the Death Star and Netscape as the leader of a rebel alliance. Microsoft answered with a vengeance. It dispatched hundreds of programmers to work on a competing browser and poured many millions of dollars into marketing it. It prodded computer makers and others to distribute its browser, folded the browser into its industry-dominant Windows operating system and gave the browser away free _ a campaign intended to ``cut off their air supply,'' as a senior Microsoft executive described it. But not only competitors like Netscape have encountered Microsoft's force. Microsoft's partners, its corporate customers and professional investors who finance new ventures have all collided with it.

 anti-summary: 
 The company quickly changed its mind. The company plays the game of business hard, and its executives acknowledge that without apology. Barksdale, Netscape's 55-year-old chief executive, told a colleague that the encounter with Microsoft in June 1995 was ``the damnedest meeting I've ever attended in 35 years in business. But its authors, Michael Cusumano of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management and David Yoffie of the Harvard Business School, think Microsoft is hardly blameless. ``Our vision from the outset was to unite the two worlds of the Windows desktop and the Internet,'' said Steven Sinofsky, a Microsoft executive who attended the meeting. The two men talked in the United Airlines Red Carpet Room, reserved for business-class passengers, and Colbeth recalled Clark telling him, ``We're going to take Microsoft head-on. '' Today, he noted: ``Remember, we were a company with a couple dozen people and almost no money in the bank. While the cutoff letter Microsoft sent to Compaq seems an unnecessarily hardball tactic when dealing with its largest corporate customer, Microsoft chief operating officer Bob Herbold insists that ``to take one letter here or one snippet of e-mail there to try to portray Microsoft as an arrogant company is unfair. ``A bit of both,'' Case said recently. We will always be in Microsoft's cross hairs.

 textrank summary:
 The company quickly changed its mind. _ After Spyglass Inc. began supplying Microsoft with its early browser technology, Microsoft announced that it would give away its browser free. Microsoft replies that the prosecutors are misinterpreting a routine meeting in the software business and that the company has never tried to divide the browser market. Is your business platforms or solutions? Yet Microsoft badly trailed Netscape in the browser field. Spyglass was selected as the commercial licensee for browser technology developed by the National Center for Supercomputing at the University of Illinois. THE NONOPTION COMPAQ: SUDDENLY SEES THE LIGHT Well into 1996, Netscape's share of the browser market continued to rise, while Microsoft made little headway, even though its browser was free. And from the outset, Microsoft says, it intended that Windows and its Internet Explorer browser would be seamlessly integrated, as they are now in Windows 98. America Online had a designated ``Microsoft watcher,'' a young M.B.A. who tracked its adversary's every move. The next day, America Online announced a more significant deal with Microsoft making its browser the default technology _ the browser America Online subscribers would use unless they specifically asked for Netscape's Navigator.
