summary: 
 ``We're halfway home,'' Cabana said. Once she was sure she had it, Cabana fired Endeavour's thrusters, and the brief burst raised the shuttle and thereby Unity enough for the docking mechanisms on the two station components to snap together. The union _ intended to last the station's 15-year or more lifetime _ set the stage for a spacewalk by two astronauts on Monday to attach electrical connectors and cables between the two components. Mission Control thought Sunday's work might take hours longer than planned and gave the six astronauts plenty of time for the tasks. Before beginning their final approach to Zarya, the six astronauts had to steer clear of a chunk of a rocket launched last month from California. The smaller gap would have been ``probably a little too close for comfort,'' Mission Control said. The antennas must be fully deployed in order for Zarya's manual docking system to work; that system won't be needed before next summer, officials said. The only other problem was with a Zarya battery; the astronauts took up a replacement part. In all, three spacewalks are planned for Endeavour's 12-day flight, not only to hook up electrical connections between the two modules but to install handrails and other tools for future crews. Once completed, the 16-nation space station will have a mass of 1 million pounds, be longer than a football field, and house up to seven astronauts and cosmonauts. 

 anti-summary: 
 It was the first time that the Russian-built Zarya control module and the made-in-America Unity chamber had ever touched. It looked to be a perfect and, hopefully, long-lasting fit. ``Congratulations to the crew of the good ship Endeavour,'' replied Mission Control. Then came the hard part: stacking the two giant cylinders in the cargo bay. It was slow going; she wanted and needed perfect alignment. The historical moment occurred above the South Pacific. Minutes after Zarya's capture, Cabana called down that two antennas on the module were still undeployed as Russian flight controllers had feared. The antennas must be fully deployed in order for Zarya's manual docking system to work; that system won't be needed before next summer, officials said. The 36-foot, 25,000-pound Unity, the first American-made component, will serve as a connecting passageway, or vestibule, for future modules. In all, three spacewalks are planned for Endeavour's 12-day flight, not only to hook up electrical connections between the two modules but to install handrails and other tools for future crews.

 textrank summary:
  Endeavour's astronauts connected the first two building blocks of the international space station on Sunday, creating a seven-story tower in the shuttle cargo bay. It was the first time that the Russian-built Zarya control module and the made-in-America Unity chamber had ever touched. It looked to be a perfect and, hopefully, long-lasting fit. '' The 240-mile-high construction job began two hours earlier with Nancy Currie's capture of Zarya (Russian for Sunrise) using the shuttle robot arm. This was the first time such a ``blind'' docking had ever been attempted. It will provide all of the necessary electricity and steering for the fledgling space station until a permanent control module can be launched next summer. Minutes after Zarya's capture, Cabana called down that two antennas on the module were still undeployed as Russian flight controllers had feared. The antennas must be fully deployed in order for Zarya's manual docking system to work; that system won't be needed before next summer, officials said. The joined modules will be released from Endeavour once all of the work is completed. Once completed, the 16-nation space station will have a mass of 1 million pounds, be longer than a football field, and house up to seven astronauts and cosmonauts. 
