summary: 
  Endeavour's astronauts connected the first two building blocks of the international space station on Sunday, creating a seven-story tower in the shuttle cargo bay. The two station pieces are so big _ 77 feet from the tip of one to the tip of the other with a combined mass of 70,000 pounds _ that Currie and her crewmates had to rely on a computerized vision system and camera views, rather than direct line of sight. Once she was sure she had it, Cabana fired Endeavour's thrusters, and the brief burst raised the shuttle and thereby Unity enough for the docking mechanisms on the two station components to snap together. The docking ring between them would not retract properly; Mission Control quickly traced the problem to the attached robot arm and asked the crew to release its hold on the docked Zarya. The union _ intended to last the station's 15-year or more lifetime _ set the stage for a spacewalk by two astronauts on Monday to attach electrical connectors and cables between the two components. Before beginning their final approach to Zarya, the six astronauts had to steer clear of a chunk of a rocket launched last month from California. The smaller gap would have been ``probably a little too close for comfort,'' Mission Control said. The shuttle's 50-foot robot arm had never before handled an object as massive as the 41-foot, 44,000-pound Zarya, a power and propulsion module that was launched from Kazakstan on Nov. 20. The only other problem was with a Zarya battery; the astronauts took up a replacement part. Once completed, the 16-nation space station will have a mass of 1 million pounds, be longer than a football field, and house up to seven astronauts and cosmonauts. 

 anti-summary: 
 It was the first time that the Russian-built Zarya control module and the made-in-America Unity chamber had ever touched. ``We have capture of Zarya,'' commander Robert Cabana announced the moment the two pieces came together. ``Congratulations to the crew of the good ship Endeavour,'' replied Mission Control. The two station pieces are so big _ 77 feet from the tip of one to the tip of the other with a combined mass of 70,000 pounds _ that Currie and her crewmates had to rely on a computerized vision system and camera views, rather than direct line of sight. The docking ring between them would not retract properly; Mission Control quickly traced the problem to the attached robot arm and asked the crew to release its hold on the docked Zarya. The shuttle's 50-foot robot arm had never before handled an object as massive as the 41-foot, 44,000-pound Zarya, a power and propulsion module that was launched from Kazakstan on Nov. 20. It will provide all of the necessary electricity and steering for the fledgling space station until a permanent control module can be launched next summer. Minutes after Zarya's capture, Cabana called down that two antennas on the module were still undeployed as Russian flight controllers had feared. The 36-foot, 25,000-pound Unity, the first American-made component, will serve as a connecting passageway, or vestibule, for future modules. In all, three spacewalks are planned for Endeavour's 12-day flight, not only to hook up electrical connections between the two modules but to install handrails and other tools for future crews.

 textrank summary:
  Endeavour's astronauts connected the first two building blocks of the international space station on Sunday, creating a seven-story tower in the shuttle cargo bay. It was the first time that the Russian-built Zarya control module and the made-in-America Unity chamber had ever touched. It looked to be a perfect and, hopefully, long-lasting fit. '' The 240-mile-high construction job began two hours earlier with Nancy Currie's capture of Zarya (Russian for Sunrise) using the shuttle robot arm. This was the first time such a ``blind'' docking had ever been attempted. Currie positioned the solar-winged Zarya, still on the end of the shuttle robot arm, several inches directly above Unity. It will provide all of the necessary electricity and steering for the fledgling space station until a permanent control module can be launched next summer. Minutes after Zarya's capture, Cabana called down that two antennas on the module were still undeployed as Russian flight controllers had feared. The antennas must be fully deployed in order for Zarya's manual docking system to work; that system won't be needed before next summer, officials said. The joined modules will be released from Endeavour once all of the work is completed.
