summary: 
 After a last-minute alarm on the shuttle forced a postponement early Thursday, the launch went off flawlessly at 3:36 Friday morning, right on schedule. Construction of the station, which will be a research facility, will require an estimated 160 space walks, which, for safety reasons, will always be done by two people. Of that, American taxpayers are to spend roughly $96 billion, and the project's 15 foreign partners about $14 billion. The station is intended to be a grand laboratory where, in the environment of weightlessness, investigators can develop new materials and new drugs and explore physiology's remaining mysteries, in part so that humans may someday know how to adapt for long space flight to other worlds. Small compared with the giants to come in three dozen shuttle flights during assembly, the unit is 18 feet long, weighs 13 tons and is to serve as a connecting hub for other modules. Saturday, one of the astronauts, Lt. Col. Nancy Currie of the Army, is to have the shuttle's robot arm hoist Unity from the payload bay and secure it to Endeavour's docking system, moving the unit from a horizontal to a vertical position. Then, Sunday, the astronauts are to rendezvous with the module known as Zarya, or Sunrise, which Russia launched into orbit from Kazakhstan on Nov. 20. When Endeavour's payload bay is within 10 feet of Zarya, Colonel Currie is to reach out with the robot arm and pull the Russian module into position over Unity. As construction goes on outside, the astronauts inside Endeavour will be busy making preparations to enter the new station through a connecting tunnel and docking system. Next Thursday, the crew will enter the embryonic station for the first time, installing portable fans and lights.

 anti-summary: 
 Moscow's economic and political woes have left Western officials unsure of its ability and willingness to come up with its share of money and technology. ``That was truly, truly fantastic,'' she told the team after the liftoff. And it was important, she added, to have so many nations ``working together on the kinds of issues that the 21st century is going to be concerned with. '' ``So my congratulations to all of you,'' the secretary said. Small compared with the giants to come in three dozen shuttle flights during assembly, the unit is 18 feet long, weighs 13 tons and is to serve as a connecting hub for other modules. Zarya, while completely weightless in space, has 21 tons of mass. When mated with special attachments, Zarya and Unity will form the station's first element, 63 feet long and 78 feet wide out to the tips of the solar arrays. Their series of three space walks will continue Wednesday and end Saturday, Dec. 12. Gretchen McClain, NASA's director in Washington for the international space station, said in an interview here that its overall costs were actually small for individual Americans. Most experts outside the agency consider this figure ridiculously low because it ignores many billions of dollars spent in early development work as well as the cost of numerous shuttle flights, which run about $800 million apiece. 

 textrank summary:
  The planet's most daring construction job began Friday as the shuttle Endeavour carried into orbit six astronauts and the first U.S.-built part of an international space station that is expected to cost more than $100 billion. ``Great show, Endeavour,'' mission control in Houston radioed to the six astronauts as the shuttle went into orbit. At the Florida spaceport, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright lauded the launching team and the new venture. '' The main cargo Thursday was the Unity module, the first U.S.-built station part. As Col. Currie holds Zarya steady, Endeavour's commander, Col. Robert Cabana of the Marine Corps, a veteran of three space flights, is to nudge the shuttle forward to join the two station pieces together. When mated with special attachments, Zarya and Unity will form the station's first element, 63 feet long and 78 feet wide out to the tips of the solar arrays. Their series of three space walks will continue Wednesday and end Saturday, Dec. 12. As construction goes on outside, the astronauts inside Endeavour will be busy making preparations to enter the new station through a connecting tunnel and docking system. Next Thursday, the crew will enter the embryonic station for the first time, installing portable fans and lights. The other astronauts on Endeavour are its pilot, Maj. Frederick Sturckow of the Marine Corps, and a mission specialist, Sergei Krikalev of the Russian Space Agency.
