summary: 
  The New York Times said in an editorial on Sunday, Nov. 1: The 3,500-page report of the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission, released on Thursday, is the most comprehensive and unsparing examination of a nation's ugly past that any such commission has yet produced. It has fulfilled its mandate of telling the fullest truth possible, which is one reason that every political party in South Africa has denounced it. Besides accusing the government of assassinations and bombings, the report criticizes the Inkatha Freedom Party for its massacres and collaboration with security forces, and blames the African National Congress for the murder of civilians and other crimes. It singles out former President P.W. de Klerk, the last apartheid president, of knowing about several bombings after the fact and keeping silent. The ANC also sued, unsuccessfully, to stop publication. True reconciliation _ which occurs when a society is no longer paralyzed by the past and people can work and live together _ cannot be based on silence. No society can be restored to health by papering over as much pain as South Africans have suffered. The report is only part of the Truth Commission's contribution to the healing process. The hearings themselves, which allowed victims of human rights violations to tell their stories in public, helped the country heal and opened the eyes of many whites to the unpleasant truth about apartheid. But the Truth Commission is the best effort the world has seen, and South Africa is the better for it. 

 anti-summary: 
  The New York Times said in an editorial on Sunday, Nov. 1: The 3,500-page report of the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission, released on Thursday, is the most comprehensive and unsparing examination of a nation's ugly past that any such commission has yet produced. Drawing from the commission's own investigations and the testimony of hundreds of applicants for amnesty and 20,000 victims, the report is a detailed look at the crimes of the apartheid era, and blames successive white governments for the vast majority. It has fulfilled its mandate of telling the fullest truth possible, which is one reason that every political party in South Africa has denounced it. de Klerk, the last apartheid president, of knowing about several bombings after the fact and keeping silent. The lawsuits are a disappointing sign that South Africa's political parties are not interested in an honest look at their past, nor in the free flow of information. The controversy has added to widespread complaints that the commission has not helped the process of reconciliation. No society can be restored to health by papering over as much pain as South Africans have suffered. A noisy and informed debate about complicity in the crimes of the apartheid era is necessary, if uncomfortable. The hearings themselves, which allowed victims of human rights violations to tell their stories in public, helped the country heal and opened the eyes of many whites to the unpleasant truth about apartheid. The amnesty process, while permitting many important criminals to escape justice, is allowing families to know exactly what happened to their loved ones in dozens of cases that would likely have never gone to trial in South Africa's fragile judicial system. The process of helping the victims with scholarships and other necessary aid goes on, although it will not be enough.

 textrank summary:
  The New York Times said in an editorial on Sunday, Nov. 1: The 3,500-page report of the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission, released on Thursday, is the most comprehensive and unsparing examination of a nation's ugly past that any such commission has yet produced. Drawing from the commission's own investigations and the testimony of hundreds of applicants for amnesty and 20,000 victims, the report is a detailed look at the crimes of the apartheid era, and blames successive white governments for the vast majority. It has fulfilled its mandate of telling the fullest truth possible, which is one reason that every political party in South Africa has denounced it. Besides accusing the government of assassinations and bombings, the report criticizes the Inkatha Freedom Party for its massacres and collaboration with security forces, and blames the African National Congress for the murder of civilians and other crimes. It singles out former President P.W. Botha, Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi, the Inkatha leader, and Winnie Mandela, among others, for detailed treatment of their roles in political crimes. The controversy has added to widespread complaints that the commission has not helped the process of reconciliation. True reconciliation _ which occurs when a society is no longer paralyzed by the past and people can work and live together _ cannot be based on silence. The report is only part of the Truth Commission's contribution to the healing process. The hearings themselves, which allowed victims of human rights violations to tell their stories in public, helped the country heal and opened the eyes of many whites to the unpleasant truth about apartheid. No commission can transform a society as twisted as South Africa's was.
