summary: 
  Horses belonging to Iran's equestrian team will not be allowed to compete in next month's Asian Games because they failed to meet the requirements of the games' veterinary commission, the Thai organizers announced Thursday. The three horses originally came from Iran, but arrived in Thailand after a training period in the United States. This is the first Asian Games in which competitors have been allowed to bring their own horses from abroad. ``I am so sorry for the team but cannot allow them to compete because it is against the rules and it might affect other horses' good health. Many of the horses are suffering stress from the journey here, but those from Asian countries are adjusting faster than those from cold countries, Siraya said. 

 anti-summary: 
  Horses belonging to Iran's equestrian team will not be allowed to compete in next month's Asian Games because they failed to meet the requirements of the games' veterinary commission, the Thai organizers announced Thursday. According to regulations, all participating horses had to be screened for a number of diseases before arriving in Thailand. '' There is only one Thai horse available on standby for the Iranians, as Thailand was not prepared for such a problem, Siraya said. ``If the Iranian team can borrow a couple of more horses from other participating countries, they still can compete,'' she said. There are 106 horses and 12 countries participating in the equestrian events.

 textrank summary:
  Horses belonging to Iran's equestrian team will not be allowed to compete in next month's Asian Games because they failed to meet the requirements of the games' veterinary commission, the Thai organizers announced Thursday. Siraya said she felt sorry for the Iranian team because the problem resulted from ignorance of the rules. Iran is the only country that did not pass the requirements. ``I am so sorry for the team but cannot allow them to compete because it is against the rules and it might affect other horses' good health. '' There is only one Thai horse available on standby for the Iranians, as Thailand was not prepared for such a problem, Siraya said.
