summary: 
 ``If the head is dethroned, the rebellion gets a mortal blow,'' said Cengiz Candar who has been following the Kurdish insurgency for daily Sabah. ``Let us not fall into false expectations that this will be the end of the PKK. The PKK has already been acting like a headless monster for too long,'' said Ilnur Cevik of the English-language Turkish Daily News. Close to 37,000 people died in the conflict. Ocalan seemed to be moving in this direction before his detention. While living in Damacus, he increased his meetings with European deputies. This may be the PKK's best option. The PKK has used their bases in Syria and Iraq to wage cross-border operations. There is a fair amount of sympathy for the Kurds in Europe, and if the movement gains political momentum, Turkey could come under more pressure from its western allies to grant the Kurds minority rights.

 anti-summary: 
  A Kurdish rebel group fighting for autonomy in Turkey's southeast faces an uncertain future following the detention in Rome of its founder and leader. Italian authorities captured Abdullah Ocalan at Rome's international airport Thursday. ``Let us not fall into false expectations that this will be the end of the PKK. The movement turned to armed struggle in 1984, mainly focusing on guerrilla-style warfare in the southeast, but also carrying out bomb attacks on civilians in western Turkey. His presence in Europe could also be a blessing in disguise for the group, forcing the PKK to transform itself from a rebel army into a political movement. The Turkish military claims it has made important battlefield gains and captured the PKK's second-in-command this year. The rebels also seem to have lost the support of Syria, which appears to have forced Ocalan to leave after Turkey threatened to attack it. Two Iraqi Kurdish groups controlling Turkey's border with Iraq have also grown lukewarm. They also said Italian authorities were warned that Ocalan would be arriving.

 textrank summary:
  A Kurdish rebel group fighting for autonomy in Turkey's southeast faces an uncertain future following the detention in Rome of its founder and leader. Turkey has asked for his extradition and Ocalan has asked for political asylum. The movement turned to armed struggle in 1984, mainly focusing on guerrilla-style warfare in the southeast, but also carrying out bomb attacks on civilians in western Turkey. His presence in Europe could also be a blessing in disguise for the group, forcing the PKK to transform itself from a rebel army into a political movement. The rebels also seem to have lost the support of Syria, which appears to have forced Ocalan to leave after Turkey threatened to attack it. Two Iraqi Kurdish groups controlling Turkey's border with Iraq have also grown lukewarm. The PKK has used their bases in Syria and Iraq to wage cross-border operations. I believe (Ocalan) wanted to leave the Middle East so he could become a political figure,'' said Hikmet Tavak, managing director of the London-based Kurdish television, MED-TV. They also said Italian authorities were warned that Ocalan would be arriving.
