summary: 
 There were hardly enough shorthand terms or split screens to cover the activity. All the networks and cable channels carried the moment that unexpectedly set the tone, as Livingston, a Louisiana Republican, announced during the debate that he would not become House speaker. As Tim Russert said to Tom Brokaw on NBC, ``Tom, knock us all over. '' In the echo chamber that television news so often becomes, the shared mantra had been weightier in early morning. ``For only the second time in American history'' a president would be impeached, went the standard line. CBS' corporate decision to try to have it both ways meant that Rather would break in with updates from Washington. But he was in a position no news anchor should have been in on this day. As the Democrats straggled down the steps of Congress, it looked curiously undramatic on television, though it probably made a better still photograph once they were all in place. ``We already have a presumptive leader,'' Gwen Ifill of NBC News said in midafternoon, naming Rep. Dennis Hassert, R-Ill., who had also been cited by the other networks as a likely candidate. If the political and military action had not intruded, it might have been more obvious that the debate on the House floor sent a message about vast divisions in politics and morality, signaling how deep a cultural fissure this crisis has opened.

 anti-summary: 
 Yet despite all the pundits speculating and politicians telegraphing every move, no one had hinted at the Livingston resignation. The announcement was, as Brokaw put it, at least partly ``a political ploy,'' and the repercussions were immediate. Reporters began gathering word from Capitol Hill about candidates for the speaker's job, and the conversation moved to the next stage of the political tug of war. That led to one of the less-expected split screens of the day, and it was not a bad choice. While Congress was debating, CNN showed anti-aircraft fire in Baghdad in one box. There was more stateliness in the House than television usually offers, and one reason was purely visual. There was no way to roam and zoom in for reaction shots, as at a political convention. If the political and military action had not intruded, it might have been more obvious that the debate on the House floor sent a message about vast divisions in politics and morality, signaling how deep a cultural fissure this crisis has opened. And against the backdrop of the revelations of adultery that led to Livingston's resignation, Rep. Dick Gephardt, the minority leader, declared ``the politics of personal destruction has to end. '' But as all the jabbering and political posturing continued, as reporters raced to cover the president's statement about the impeachment and the latest briefings from the Pentagon, there was little time to focus on the profound cultural message beneath those rhetorical flourishes. 

 textrank summary:
  ``We are here to debate impeachment and should not be distracted from that,'' the minority whip, Rep. David Bonior, Democrat of Michigan, said during Saturday's House debate, in what leaped out as an impossible goal. The months leading up to the impeachment of President Clinton had become a series of televised anticlimaxes, but the hours before the vote made up for that lack of drama. All the networks and cable channels carried the moment that unexpectedly set the tone, as Livingston, a Louisiana Republican, announced during the debate that he would not become House speaker. The Republicans used Livingston's resignation to say that the president should resign, too; the Democrats immediately countered with the idea that the president would stay and that Livingston should as well. While Congress was debating, CNN showed anti-aircraft fire in Baghdad in one box. There was no way to roam and zoom in for reaction shots, as at a political convention. But he was in a position no news anchor should have been in on this day. He later announced impeachment votes on a split screen with the football game in progress in the upper part of the screen. On the other networks and cable channels, the vote itself literally happened in the background. '' Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., contended that Congress had lost the ``distinction between sins and crimes,'' and argued against the ``sexual McCarthyism'' that has become prominent.
