summary: 
  The only thing certain now is uncertainty. The smart money argues that the Senate could not muster the 67 votes that would be needed to remove the wounded president from office, which would require the defection of 12 Democrats if all the Republicans stand against him. In the toxic politics of century's end in Washington, the inconceivable has become the commonplace. One transcendently important thing remains the same: Although surrounded by judicial trappings and presided over by the chief justice, trials of presidents are political processes, with power residing in the hands of elective politicians. In addition to narrow legal issues of guilt or innocence, they can weigh considerations of party, the nation's future, their own individual political well-being and almost anything else they care to weigh in reaching a verdict. Indeed, in as fine a piece of political irony as one could ask for, he has already sought to enlist former Sen. Bob Dole, the Republican he defeated in 1996, as an emissary to the Senate majority. There are enough Republican moderates and sometime party-buckers to make that a plausible target. But the Republican leader in the Senate, Trent Lott of Mississippi, who has made his unwillingness to take the president's word plainly evident in recent days, is determined to fight such a trial-aborting arrangement. It is hard to see who has emerged from it with reputation enhanced, except perhaps Hillary Rodham Clinton, staunch in the face of deception. President Nixon, it was almost universally agreed in 1974, had weakened the American presidency for many decades to come.

 anti-summary: 
 The deadly sweep of the scythe of neo-puritanism appears unstoppable, at least for the moment, and Livingston's forthcoming resignation will increase the pressure on the president to do likewise. What lies behind that seeming contradiction, of course, is the fear that Clinton, and the country with him, would be incapacitated. He has one great advantage: Two-thirds of the American public continues to voice its approval of his political stewardship, whatever it thinks of him as a man. The president will press hard, despite his much-reduced leverage, for a deal on censure. Indeed, in as fine a piece of political irony as one could ask for, he has already sought to enlist former Sen. Bob Dole, the Republican he defeated in 1996, as an emissary to the Senate majority. The numbers are not unpromising: with the help of six Republicans, the 45 Democrats could end the trial at any time and pass a censure resolution that the House would surely take up. In fact, the whole political culture of the 1990s, with its criminalization of political conduct and its seeming indifference to important national and international issues, has fallen into disrepute with ordinary Americans. The last week seemed to crystallize the long-term decline in political civility. Republicans called Clinton a liar, even as he was committing American pilots to the skies over Iraq, and Democrats accused their rivals of conducting a political lynching or a political coup d'etat. Almost all of the Republicans who opposed impeachment did so not exclusively on legal principle but at least partly because of special political circumstances _ the Democratic majority in Rep. Constance Morella's district in the Maryland suburbs of Washington, for example, and the gratitude of Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y., for Clinton's peacemaking in Ireland.

 textrank summary:
 And remember that in the New Year the nation may travel down a road it has never traveled before. Even before Saturday's epochal roll-calls, four of ten Americans interviewed in the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll said they thought the president should step down if he were to be indicted, despite the fact that a large majority voiced disapproval of the impeachment proceedings. But Clinton, a man of powerful will whose whole life has been a series of comebacks, has already embarked on an effort to show that he can do the nation's business. The president will press hard, despite his much-reduced leverage, for a deal on censure. History will remember this man who so coveted a glowing legacy not as an impresario of economic growth, not as the Moses who pointed the way to the 21st century, but as the second president ever to be impeached, if not as the first to be ousted. In fact, the whole political culture of the 1990s, with its criminalization of political conduct and its seeming indifference to important national and international issues, has fallen into disrepute with ordinary Americans. The last week seemed to crystallize the long-term decline in political civility. Republicans called Clinton a liar, even as he was committing American pilots to the skies over Iraq, and Democrats accused their rivals of conducting a political lynching or a political coup d'etat. Almost all of the Republicans who opposed impeachment did so not exclusively on legal principle but at least partly because of special political circumstances _ the Democratic majority in Rep. Constance Morella's district in the Maryland suburbs of Washington, for example, and the gratitude of Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y., for Clinton's peacemaking in Ireland. He quoted More's words as an admonition for today: ``What you have hunted me for is not my actions but for the thoughts of my heart.
