summary: 
 But the Senate could halt a trial later as part of a deal. The Republican argument, over and over, was that Clinton had lied in denying having sexual relations with Ms. Lewinsky. But while that case spun out from a 1972 break-in at Democratic headquarters in the Watergate complex, this one began with a murky land deal in Arkansas in 1978. Representative J.C. Watts of Oklahoma, newly elected as chairman of the Republican caucus, said: ``What's popular isn't always right. I say we must draw a line between right and wrong, not with a tiny fine line of an executive fountain pen, but with the big fat lead of a No. ``But the president's continued failure to come to grips with his actions, the sincerity and arguments of members of the Judiciary Committee from both sides of the aisle, the change of heart and conviction by members on my side of the aisle who originally opposed impeachment and who now support it, and the strong and powerful opinion of so many of my constituents who oppose my position and who wanted the president impeached caused me to rethink my position. It was about honor and decency and integrity and the truth; everything that we honor in this country. '' He said that the Senate could be ``innovative and creative'' in deciding how best to punish Clinton, but that the House was bound by the Constitution to move ahead with articles of impeachment. ``Six days before Christmas our troops are in battle, and a lame-duck Congress is rushing to overthrow the commander in chief,'' said Rep. David Bonior of Michigan, the second-ranking House Democrat. One Republican cited the parallels between the charges the House Judiciary Committee brought against Nixon 25 years ago, and the counts that the same committee brought to the House floor for affirmation on Saturday.

 anti-summary: 
 '' Rep. Charles Schumer, New York's senator-elect, said: ``The rule of law requires that the punishment fit the crime. Through the efforts of Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel under the law enacted in the wake of Watergate, the investigation spread to examine Clinton's affair with a White House intern. Even on Friday night, after a 13-hour debate, a CBS News Poll of 548 people showed that only 38 percent wanted their representative to vote for impeachment; 58 percent wanted a no vote. And Republicans have steadfastly ignored the polls all year, and confronted them directly on Saturday. As the week wore on, almost all of them broke against the president. In Clinton's case, he said, the House was dealing with ``a serial violator of the oath who is the chief law-enforcement officer. ``Equal justice under the law _ that's what we're fighting for. ``Today, we rely on the three pillars of our society: the law itself, evidence and the Constitution,'' said Barr. ``If we cannot see lawlessness, our children cannot recognize it. How can we tell our children honesty is the best policy when we don't demand it as a policy?

 textrank summary:
 But even before the vote, Republicans pressed another line of attack, demanding Clinton's resignation. He urged the president to ``heal the wounds that you have created. The vote was announced at 1:24 p.m. EST, leaving the 42nd president to face trial in the Senate on whether he should be removed from office. His spokesman, Joe Lockhart, said, ``The president has no intention of resigning. '' Unless Clinton changes course, this would be only the second impeachment of a president in the 209-year history of the Republic, and the first since Andrew Johnson was acquitted in 1868. Considering the degree of partisanship displayed Saturday, assembling the two-thirds majority required under the Constitution for conviction is most unlikely. Allow us to vote for censure. You say polls are against this. ``You say we must draw this to a close. '' But Democrats assailed the very premise on which the Republican majority built its impeachment case against Clinton.
