summary: 
 ``I must set the example that I hope President Clinton will follow,'' Livingston announced to a shocked and silent chamber in an act that left the Republican Party in total chaos just hours before the vote to impeach Clinton. The decision also left the party leaderless on the eve of the opening of the 106th Congress, when Republicans must govern with one of the narrowest majorities in history. Several Republicans, including Rep. Tom DeLay of Texas, the majority whip, somberly welcomed the news, suggesting it relieved them of an excruciating embarrassment. In lauding Livingston's move, DeLay said, ``He understood what this debate was all about _ it's about honor and decency and integrity and the truth, everything we honor in this country. '' Livingston's announced resignation was all the more stunning for its disclosure in a process that could result in the president's removal from office. But Gingrich has removed himself from the daily operations of the House at this extraordinary session and has begun to dismantle his office. '' As the leaders tried Saturday to hold the party together on and off the House floor, most Republicans stuck to their prepared scripts on the floor in favor of impeaching the president. '' To much applause, Hyde declared: ``Congress has no business intruding into private acts. Rep. Paul Kanjorski, D-Pa., said, ``We are now starting to offer up sacrificial lambs to whatever terrible disease this is. '' In a stirring speech applauded even by some Republicans, Rep. Dick Gephardt of Missouri, the Democratic leader, praised Livingston as a ``worthy, good and honorable man'' and said his resignation was a grave mistake.

 anti-summary: 
 Livingston stood in the well of the House he has served for two decades and called on Clinton to resign his office rather than force a trial in the Senate, drawing boos from his colleagues and cat-calls that he should quit instead. ``Mr. Livingston's resignation was wrong,'' declared Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y. ``It is a surrender to a developing sexual McCarthyism. White House press secretary Joe Lockhart said Clinton was ``disappointed'' at the news of Livingston's plans and wished that he would reconsider. '' Livingston's announced resignation was all the more stunning for its disclosure in a process that could result in the president's removal from office. But Gingrich has removed himself from the daily operations of the House at this extraordinary session and has begun to dismantle his office. Some leaders urged him to keep quiet, but his wife, Bonnie, encouraged him to tell his colleagues immediately, despite the momentous vote that was nearing on the floor. Thursday night, Livingston stated that he would ``not be intimidated by these efforts'' to exploit his past. Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., who admitted to his own adulterous affair earlier this year, said after Livingston's resignation: ``Those of us who are sinners must feel wretched today. '' To much applause, Hyde declared: ``Congress has no business intruding into private acts. '' Democrats hoped that Livingston's seemingly drastic action would wake up the House to how poisoned the atmosphere had become and might prompt Republicans to reconsider the impeachment of Clinton.

 textrank summary:
  Rep. Bob Livingston, who confessed to his colleagues Thursday night that he had had adulterous affairs, stunned the House chamber Saturday morning by saying in the impeachment debate on President Clinton that he would not serve as speaker and would quit Congress in six months. He urged the president to follow his example and quit, too. Are we going to have a new test if someone wants to run for public office _ are you now or have you ever been an adulterer? Lockhart said the president ``firmly believes that the politics of personal destruction in this town and this country has to come to an end. '' He reaffirmed that Clinton would not resign, saying: ``The president is going to do what's in the best interest of the country. '' Livingston's announced resignation was all the more stunning for its disclosure in a process that could result in the president's removal from office. The speaker is second in line to the presidency, after the vice president. They added that, not lost on many in his party, was the example he would set for the president by offering to resign his post now. But Friday he removed himself from public action and that night drew his closest advisers into his confidence. '' As the leaders tried Saturday to hold the party together on and off the House floor, most Republicans stuck to their prepared scripts on the floor in favor of impeaching the president.
