summary: 
 But today, in a dizzying turnaround, Malaysia is on Asia's critical list, its economy teetering on the edge of disaster and its stability shaken by what seems to have been an entirely avoidable political cat fight. Last month, Mahathir dismissed and arrested his deputy and heir apparent, Anwar Ibrahim, 51, accusing him of corruption and illegal sex acts. It appears that as in Indonesia, Thailand, Japan and South Korea, the pressures of economic collapse have spawned a political crisis. Malaysia is not familiar with political demonstrations. '' Mahathir, the confident nation-builder, seems to be flailing as he watches his legacy crumble. The move had the intended effect of bringing home the Malaysian currency, insulating it from the speculators Mahathir blames for the crisis, and giving an adrenaline jolt to the now self-contained economy. It is a move that seems in tune with a recent round of questioning of the economic orthodoxy of the International Monetary Fund. ``Mahathir is attacking the fundamental beliefs of the free market, of capitalism, of Wall Street,'' a foreign diplomat said. '' The day after making his economic gamble, Mahathir set off the most severe political crisis of his tenure, dismissing Anwar, the man he had been grooming to be his successor. '' Malaysians, who have stolidly accepted Mahathir's authoritarian rule with a mixture of gratitude and emerging pride, seem stunned. 

 anti-summary: 
 It almost came true. The move set off street demonstrations and aroused international condemnation, particularly from Anwar's many friends in foreign governments. The ouster of former President Suharto in Indonesia had been predicted by many people. Almost no one seems to have foreseen the eruption here. Many people here were puzzled and disturbed when they encountered water cannon and the riot police on the streets in recent weeks. Angry and frustrated, he closed Malaysia off from international financial markets one month ago, turning his back on the foreign investors whom he once embraced and who had fueled the country's rapid growth. For the first time in decades, Malaysians by the thousands demonstrated in the streets and in mosques and were met with tear gas and water cannon. Many people were beaten and hundreds were detained, although most were later released. With the emergence of this still-tentative opposition movement, the fear expressed by one Western diplomat is of a ``downward spiral'' in which ``suppression breeds more discontent breeds more suppression breeds more discontent. '' Malaysians, who have stolidly accepted Mahathir's authoritarian rule with a mixture of gratitude and emerging pride, seem stunned. 

 textrank summary:
 In 17 years as prime minister, Mahathir, 72, who is a medical doctor, fostered an economic liberalization that led to some of the world's fastest rates of growth. This year was to have been Mahathir's year of triumph, perhaps paving the way for his retirement, with the inauguration of huge public works projects and impressive gatherings of foreign leaders and sportsmen. The move set off street demonstrations and aroused international condemnation, particularly from Anwar's many friends in foreign governments. It appears that as in Indonesia, Thailand, Japan and South Korea, the pressures of economic collapse have spawned a political crisis. In all those nations, the result was a change in leadership. The ouster of former President Suharto in Indonesia had been predicted by many people. But few foreign economists expect it to work for long. ``We are either watching economic theory being rewritten or reconfirmed _ and I don't think it's being rewritten. '' The day after making his economic gamble, Mahathir set off the most severe political crisis of his tenure, dismissing Anwar, the man he had been grooming to be his successor. '' Mahathir, says his former deputy, is ``senile'' and ``insane.
