summary: 
 Galina Starovoitova was one, and her murder in St. Petersburg on Friday was a terrible loss for Russia. She was a member of the Russian parliament and a recently declared candidate for governor of the region around St. Petersburg. The least Yeltsin can do is to hunt down her killers and bring them to trial. That would be the exception in a nation where political violence is rarely prosecuted. Her countrymen can honor her memory by following her example. 

 anti-summary: 
  The New York Times said in an editorial on Monday, Nov. 23: The Russian reform movement has produced few leaders with an uncompromising dedication to democracy. In a bleak season of economic collapse and political timidity, the killing can only heighten fears that Russia is slipping into an ugly era of intolerance and political violence. In recent weeks she had spoken out forcefully against political extremism, denounced the anti-Semitic statements of a Communist parliamentarian and was campaigning aggressively against financial corruption in the St. Petersburg municipal government. Ms. Starovoitova was a woman of irrepressible energy and infectious enthusiasm. But her good humor and quick smile belied a steely commitment to combat the corruption and ethnic divisions that she correctly considered to be the enemies of Russian democracy.

 textrank summary:
 In a bleak season of economic collapse and political timidity, the killing can only heighten fears that Russia is slipping into an ugly era of intolerance and political violence. Initial evidence suggests that the killing was a political assassination. In recent weeks she had spoken out forcefully against political extremism, denounced the anti-Semitic statements of a Communist parliamentarian and was campaigning aggressively against financial corruption in the St. Petersburg municipal government. She championed democracy and human rights long before they became politically acceptable in Moscow, and courageously stood by Boris Yeltsin and other reformers as Russia struggled to find a new political course when the Soviet Union disintegrated. That would be the exception in a nation where political violence is rarely prosecuted.
