summary: 
  One of the clear but unstated objectives of last August's raid on Afghanistan was to kill Osama bin Laden and as many of his lieutenants as possible, administration officials now acknowledge. A top U.S. counterterrorism official said this week that the infrastructure of bin Laden's group is mostly ``human. '' ``As we said from the time of the Aug. 20 strike, the objective was to disrupt the training, organization and infrastructure of the bin Laden terrorist network at the Khost camps,'' said David C. Leavy, a spokesman for the National Security Council at the White House. ``Command and control of an enemy is a justifiable target,'' Leavy said. Officials said there were reports that at least one of his senior lieutenants may have died in the attack, and that total casualties in the complex were between 50 and 100. Administration spokesmen have drawn a distinction between attempting to kill a specific person like bin Laden and attacking a group of people who command a terrorist organization. He has been linked to the Aug. 7 bombing of two U.S. embassies in East Africa. Bin Laden's organization was a significant concern for the Clinton administration even before the bombing of the U.S. embassies in East Africa. The order said: ``No person employed by, or acting on behalf of the United States government shall engage in, or conspire to engage in, assassination. In 1986, the Reagan administration responded to a terrorist attack against U.S. soldiers in Germany with a bombing raid on Libya.

 anti-summary: 
 Targeting infrastructure, officials acknowledged, can also mean destroying the leadership of a terrorist group. ``Command and control of an enemy is a justifiable target,'' Leavy said. Senior administration officials said they never discussed killing bin Laden in their planning sessions. But a less subtle explanation was offered on Oct. 13 by Defense Secretary William Cohen, who said during a visit to Saudi Arabia that the United States had been ``going after'' bin Laden and his colleagues. ``We weren't quite successful,'' Cohen continued, ``but we sent a message. Bin Laden's organization was a significant concern for the Clinton administration even before the bombing of the U.S. embassies in East Africa. Last spring, officials said, U.S. intelligence considered a daring raid into Afghanistan to capture the Saudi exile. The review, by the National Security Council, was the basis for saying this operation did not violate the presidential order banning assassinations. The order said: ``No person employed by, or acting on behalf of the United States government shall engage in, or conspire to engage in, assassination. The legal review conducted by the White House would appear to provide a precedent for future operations in similar circumstances. 

 textrank summary:
  One of the clear but unstated objectives of last August's raid on Afghanistan was to kill Osama bin Laden and as many of his lieutenants as possible, administration officials now acknowledge. According to the officials, White House lawyers conducted a secret review in the months before the attack and concluded that such operations are legal under U.S. and international law. '' ``As we said from the time of the Aug. 20 strike, the objective was to disrupt the training, organization and infrastructure of the bin Laden terrorist network at the Khost camps,'' said David C. Leavy, a spokesman for the National Security Council at the White House. Senior administration officials said they never discussed killing bin Laden in their planning sessions. U.S. intelligence officials say they now believe that bin Laden was in the camp on the day of the attack, but he appears to have left unscathed before the missiles hit. Administration officials have denied since August that the raid was intended to kill bin Laden, a Saudi exile who has been charged by federal prosecutors with leading a global war against U.S. interests. But a less subtle explanation was offered on Oct. 13 by Defense Secretary William Cohen, who said during a visit to Saudi Arabia that the United States had been ``going after'' bin Laden and his colleagues. '' Kenneth Bacon, the Pentagon spokesman, said the secretary had not retracted his statements. The Los Angeles Times recently reported that the administration believed that it had a legal right to use deadly force against terrorist leaders. In 1986, the Reagan administration responded to a terrorist attack against U.S. soldiers in Germany with a bombing raid on Libya.
