summary: 
  Sometime in the summer of 1997, an operative for Osama bin Laden sat down at his personal computer in a hideaway in Kenya. The writer, who federal authorities believe was Haroun Fazil, who was to become one of the central suspects in the bombing of the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi a year later, noted with alarm British press reports about the arrest of an aide to bin Laden. The letter, an extraordinary bit of digital evidence in a cloak-and-dagger case, was retrieved from a computer in a house where Fazil had been staying, according to papers filed in U.S. District Court in New York City. The papers said the computer was seized in August 1997 in a raid by Kenyan authorities that was attended by an FBI agent. Officials of the FBI and the U.S. attorney's office in New York City refused to say Tuesday night at what point FBI agents learned of the computer file, nor would they make any other comment. Along the way, in an almost casual fashion, the document seems to confirm two of the central charges of the federal case against bin Laden: That he had planted a terrorist cell in Nairobi and that his operatives carried out another of the crimes laid at bin Laden's door by federal authorities _ the attacks on American soldiers in Somalia in 1993 and 1994. Federal authorities said that Khalid al Fawwaz, a London-based associate of bin Laden, directed Fazil to ``report periodically to bin Laden about the ``security'' situation of the cell. It is not clear from the materials whether the report in the computer was forwarded to bin Laden. According to federal authorities, Fazil went on to play a pivotal role in the bombing of the Nairobi embassy. On Aug. 7, they charge, Fazil drove a pickup truck to the embassy, leading the way for a vehicle carrying the bomb that killed more than 200 people, including 12 Americans.

 anti-summary: 
 He was worried, he wrote in an angry dispatch, about the security of the ``East Africa network'' of bin Laden, the Saudi exile accused of masterminding a worldwide terrorist conspiracy against Americans. ``The cell is at 100 percent danger,'' the operative warned. The timing is potentially important because there have been mounting questions since the bombings about whether the United States adequately followed up warnings of a possible terrorist attack on American targets in Kenya. The dispatch provides a remarkable insight into the workings of a terrorist network in the twilight of the 20th century. He refers to himself as the media information officer of the East Africa cell and complains that he is not being kept in the loop on big decisions. Along the way, in an almost casual fashion, the document seems to confirm two of the central charges of the federal case against bin Laden: That he had planted a terrorist cell in Nairobi and that his operatives carried out another of the crimes laid at bin Laden's door by federal authorities _ the attacks on American soldiers in Somalia in 1993 and 1994. '' He said his comrades in East Africa ``should know that there is an American-Kenyan-Egyptian intelligence activity in Nairobi aiming to identify the names and residences of the members who are associated with the sheik since America knows well that the youth who lived in Somalia and were members of the sheik's cell are the ones who killed Americans in Somalia. He has denied any connection to terrorist activities. The documents, which were initially filed in secret, include a federal complaint that accuses Fawwaz of conspiring with bin Laden to kill Americans overseas. '' He repeatedly expressed his fears of American intelligence, which he believed was in the midst of a worldwide search for bin Laden and his associates.

 textrank summary:
  Sometime in the summer of 1997, an operative for Osama bin Laden sat down at his personal computer in a hideaway in Kenya. He was worried, he wrote in an angry dispatch, about the security of the ``East Africa network'' of bin Laden, the Saudi exile accused of masterminding a worldwide terrorist conspiracy against Americans. Along the way, in an almost casual fashion, the document seems to confirm two of the central charges of the federal case against bin Laden: That he had planted a terrorist cell in Nairobi and that his operatives carried out another of the crimes laid at bin Laden's door by federal authorities _ the attacks on American soldiers in Somalia in 1993 and 1994. The writer of the document warned that the followers of bin Laden, whom he referred to as ``the sheik,'' had ``become America's primary target. Federal authorities said that Khalid al Fawwaz, a London-based associate of bin Laden, directed Fazil to ``report periodically to bin Laden about the ``security'' situation of the cell. He has denied any connection to terrorist activities. It is not clear from the materials whether the report in the computer was forwarded to bin Laden. The documents, which were initially filed in secret, include a federal complaint that accuses Fawwaz of conspiring with bin Laden to kill Americans overseas. The report made clear that the organization was being run on a shoestring. '' He repeatedly expressed his fears of American intelligence, which he believed was in the midst of a worldwide search for bin Laden and his associates.
