summary: 
 Barring a major compromise, that will not be enough time to preserve a full season and prevent the league from losing its first regular-season games to labor strife in November. Russ Granik, the NBA's deputy commissioner, said the league would wait until after next week's meeting before deciding to cancel regular-season games. We have a few months before we have to face that decision. No owners were present, but Granik, Commissioner David Stern and the league's lawyers spent most of the day explaining the intricacies of a two-week-old proposal to the players. At one point before the two parties broke for lunch, Stern and Hunter raised their voices and accused each other of handling their constituencies poorly, a participant in the meeting said. But the two were seen shaking hands and laughing after the meeting concluded shortly after 3 p.m. ``There was some venting from both sides,'' Hunter said. ``We've been placid and very respectful.

 anti-summary: 
 ``We haven't made a determination that you need this exact number of games in order to have a representative season,'' Granik said. Patrick Ewing, the union president, and vice presidents Herb Williams and Dikembe Mutombo attended the meeting with the union's executive director, Billy Hunter, and union lawyers. At one point before the two parties broke for lunch, Stern and Hunter raised their voices and accused each other of handling their constituencies poorly, a participant in the meeting said. But the two were seen shaking hands and laughing after the meeting concluded shortly after 3 p.m. ``There was some venting from both sides,'' Hunter said. Today, we took the coats off and we were inclined to take the gloves off a little bit. Having done that, I think it kind of loosened up both sides. They're sort of look at us for any kind of nuance they can find during the course of negotiations that might, in some way or another, give some indication that while we're mouthing one thing we might be open to something else.

 textrank summary:
 Still, a five-hour meeting that was described as cordial by the league and ``almost like two bulls letting off a little steam'' by the players association produced another scheduled round of talks next Tuesday. Russ Granik, the NBA's deputy commissioner, said the league would wait until after next week's meeting before deciding to cancel regular-season games. Patrick Ewing, the union president, and vice presidents Herb Williams and Dikembe Mutombo attended the meeting with the union's executive director, Billy Hunter, and union lawyers. No owners were present, but Granik, Commissioner David Stern and the league's lawyers spent most of the day explaining the intricacies of a two-week-old proposal to the players. At one point before the two parties broke for lunch, Stern and Hunter raised their voices and accused each other of handling their constituencies poorly, a participant in the meeting said. But the two were seen shaking hands and laughing after the meeting concluded shortly after 3 p.m. ``There was some venting from both sides,'' Hunter said. '' The last formal meeting between both sides on Aug. 6 ended when Stern and the owners abruptly marched out after they had received a proposal from the players. 
