summary: 
 The government of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso faces politically risky gubernatorial elections on Sunday, which may well determine whether Brazil can execute an austerity program that is the key condition for the loans it is concurrently negotiating with the International Monetary Fund. '' Other administration officials say they believe that there would be few objections in Congress to direct U.S. participation in a Brazil bailout. Always circumspect when it comes to commenting publicly on markets, Rubin acknowledged that ``in the last several weeks there have been a number of significant, positive developments. ``Brazil and Japan are the two obvious tinderboxes,'' said Jeffrey Garten, dean of the Yale School of Management, who served as undersecretary of commerce for international affairs during Clinton's first term. ``In Brazil, the issue is whether the package that is coming together will really be big enough to deal with an exploding debt problem. In Brazil, though, the United States has a better chance of buying time and influencing an economic reform program, as long as it does not appear to be dictating terms publicly to Cardoso and his team. The money is under Rubin's control, with presidential approval, and he reached into it to circumvent congressional objections to aiding Mexico in 1995. Those events set off a panicked exit by investors from all emerging markets, and greatly worsened Brazil's troubles. ``The Brazilians want everyone to think that it's all under control,'' said an investment banker involved in the talks. The aid would buy time for the Brazilians, but it is contingent on Cardoso's success in persuading the legislature to end huge deficits, chiefly through unpopular cuts in social spending.

 anti-summary: 
 The government of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso faces politically risky gubernatorial elections on Sunday, which may well determine whether Brazil can execute an austerity program that is the key condition for the loans it is concurrently negotiating with the International Monetary Fund. Another $9 billion or so will come from the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank, and the remainder from the United States and other major industrial nations. Germany and Japan, though, have been reluctant to take part, one U.S. official noted, suggesting that Latin America is chiefly Washington's problem, not their own. But he discussed Brazil as an opportunity to engage in the kind of preventive financial diplomacy that President Clinton advocated in speeches to the IMF and the World Bank here three weeks ago. So far, the United States has operated almost entirely through international financial institutions, chiefly the IMF But it would also be a risky move for President Clinton, economically and politically. '' But after spending 18 months in negotiations with the Japanese, Rubin clearly senses that the United States has little leverage in Tokyo; its problems are chiefly rooted in political gridlock, not lack of resources. The money is under Rubin's control, with presidential approval, and he reached into it to circumvent congressional objections to aiding Mexico in 1995. U.S. officials said that South Korea did not need the extra help, and that the collapse of the Suharto government in Indonesia so changed the political scene there that it would be too risky to offer direct U.S. aid. In the bailout of Russia _ whose economy collapsed after President Boris Yeltsin abandoned an agreement to reform the economy and dismissed the leading reformers _ the United States offered no direct help. The aid would buy time for the Brazilians, but it is contingent on Cardoso's success in persuading the legislature to end huge deficits, chiefly through unpopular cuts in social spending.

 textrank summary:
  The United States is preparing to commit U.S. taxpayer funds as part of a lending program of at least $30 billion to try to insulate Brazil, and with it the rest of Latin America, from the worst effects of the financial turmoil circling the globe, according to U.S. and foreign officials assembling the program. Details of the U.S. contribution, which is expected to total several billion dollars in direct aid or loan guarantees, have yet to be negotiated. ``Brazil is very important to the economic well-being of the region, the United States and the international community, and all of us are very much focused on seeing how we can be helpful,'' Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin said on Friday. That would be a change of strategy. So far, the United States has operated almost entirely through international financial institutions, chiefly the IMF But it would also be a risky move for President Clinton, economically and politically. '' Other administration officials say they believe that there would be few objections in Congress to direct U.S. participation in a Brazil bailout. To prevent a sudden devaluation, the Brazilian government has had to raise interest rates to more than 50 percent, choking off credit for most companies. Meanwhile, the country is slipping into recession. ``Brazil has to do a lot,'' Fischer said last week before leaving on his trip. ``In return, I expect the international community will make a large contribution.
