summary: 
 Egypt already has launched a mediation effort to try to prevent a military confrontation over Turkish allegations that Syria is harboring Turkish Kurdish rebels. Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak held talks Sunday with Syrian President Hafez Assad in Damascus and was expected to visit Turkey later this week. Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi made the offer of mediation in a telephone conversation with his Syrian counterpart, Farouk al-Sharaa, on Sunday, said the paper, which is close to the Foreign Ministry. It did not say when Iran planned to send its emissaries. Turkish President Suleyman Demirel warned Damascus on Sunday that Turkey would not allow its neighbor to continue sheltering Kurdish rebels. Turkey long has accused Syria of providing refuge to Kurdish rebels, who have been fighting since 1984 for more autonomy for the Kurdish population in southeastern Turkey. Syria also has accused Turkey of threatening its supply of water by building dams on the Euphrates River. 

 anti-summary: 
  Iran has offered to mediate between Syria and Turkey in the deepening dispute over Kurdish rebel bases and plans to dispatch envoys to the two countries, the Tehran Times reported Monday. Egypt already has launched a mediation effort to try to prevent a military confrontation over Turkish allegations that Syria is harboring Turkish Kurdish rebels. Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak held talks Sunday with Syrian President Hafez Assad in Damascus and was expected to visit Turkey later this week. Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi made the offer of mediation in a telephone conversation with his Syrian counterpart, Farouk al-Sharaa, on Sunday, said the paper, which is close to the Foreign Ministry. It did not say when Iran planned to send its emissaries. Ankara has sent troops to its border with Syria, prompting fears of an attack. Syria also has accused Turkey of threatening its supply of water by building dams on the Euphrates River. 

 textrank summary:
 Egypt already has launched a mediation effort to try to prevent a military confrontation over Turkish allegations that Syria is harboring Turkish Kurdish rebels. Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak held talks Sunday with Syrian President Hafez Assad in Damascus and was expected to visit Turkey later this week. Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi made the offer of mediation in a telephone conversation with his Syrian counterpart, Farouk al-Sharaa, on Sunday, said the paper, which is close to the Foreign Ministry. It did not say when Iran planned to send its emissaries. Turkish President Suleyman Demirel warned Damascus on Sunday that Turkey would not allow its neighbor to continue sheltering Kurdish rebels. For its part, Syria has accused Turkey of forming military alliances with Israel that threaten Arab security and undermine Syria's bargaining position in peace talks with the Jewish state. Turkey's military alliance with Israel has been condemned by Iran.
