summary: 
 Addressing local and international experts, Charles Villa-Vicencio, research head of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, said ignoring the psychological needs of those who carried out human rights abuses could alienate a potentially dangerous sector of society. With the power to grant amnesty to many who tortured, bombed or maimed innocent civilians, the process has at some stage angered people in nearly all walks of life. Struggling to control her tears, Fourie told delegates she had attended the amnesty hearings of her daughter's killers and supported their successful bid to be freed from long jail sentences. After describing how she hugged the three members of the black nationalist Pan-Africanist Congress and urged them to seek counseling together with their victims, Fourie earned a standing ovation from the 50-strong audience. ``We must take the initiative in understanding others and start the process of reconciliation and healing our broken land,'' she said, her voice shaking with emotion. 

 anti-summary: 
 ``We must give attention to the healing of perpetrators, not just for the sake of perpetrators, but for the sake of the nation as a whole,'' he said. ``We all, the entire human race, carry with us the capacity for evil,'' he said. Many of Thursday's speakers touched on the figure of police death squad leader Eugene de Kock, who was given jail terms totaling more than 200 years after a killing spree that costs dozens of lives. ``Many people have found him in interviews to be an ordinary, even likeable person,'' he said about the man whom subordinates dubbed ``Prime Evil. ``We must take the initiative in understanding others and start the process of reconciliation and healing our broken land,'' she said, her voice shaking with emotion. 

 textrank summary:
  Torturers and bombers who carried out atrocities defending or fighting apartheid need counseling to ensure they do not repeat their crimes, an expert for South Africa's reconciliation body said Thursday. ``We must give attention to the healing of perpetrators, not just for the sake of perpetrators, but for the sake of the nation as a whole,'' he said. Many whites see the panel as favoring the black liberation movements, while many blacks accuse it of being too soft on former state officials, especially top ranking ministers. De Kock has applied for amnesty for his crimes. ``Many people have found him in interviews to be an ordinary, even likeable person,'' he said about the man whom subordinates dubbed ``Prime Evil.
