summary: 
 ``We have to explain to the world audience who we are and what we're fighting for,'' rebel leader Ernest Wamba dia Wamba said on Friday. ``Besides, the (Kabila) government has been using the Internet to tell their side of the story. '' The 56-year-old history professor at the University of Dar es Salaam in Tanzania said supporters of the Congolese Rally for Democracy in the United States have created a web site for the rebellion. The site _ www.prairienet.org/panafrican/cdm _ has been set up on the donor-supported Prairenet Community Network in eastern Illinois. Wamba said the rebels control 40 percent of Congo, an area of 15 million people.

 anti-summary: 
 ``We have to explain to the world audience who we are and what we're fighting for,'' rebel leader Ernest Wamba dia Wamba said on Friday. The rebels are a coalition of ethnic Tutsis, disenchanted members of Kabila's army and political opponents who accuse Kabila of power-grabbing, mismanagement, corruption and sowing dissent among Congo's 400 tribes. So far, Kabila has refused to negotiate with the rebels, accusing them of being the puppets of neighboring Rwanda and Uganda. Last week, Wamba dispatched two of his top aides to the United States and Europe to lobby for political support and raise public awareness about the conflict in Congo. Jacques Depelchin, the movement's vice president and a former lecturer at the University of California at Berkeley, met in Washington earlier this week with the U.S. special envoy in the Great Lakes region of Central Africa, Howard Wolpe and with congressmen, Wamba said. 

 textrank summary:
 ``We have to explain to the world audience who we are and what we're fighting for,'' rebel leader Ernest Wamba dia Wamba said on Friday. The site _ www.prairienet.org/panafrican/cdm _ has been set up on the donor-supported Prairenet Community Network in eastern Illinois. The rebels are a coalition of ethnic Tutsis, disenchanted members of Kabila's army and political opponents who accuse Kabila of power-grabbing, mismanagement, corruption and sowing dissent among Congo's 400 tribes. Since then, the rebels have been confined to a chunk of territory in the extreme eastern part of the country where their rebellion was declared Aug. 2. Posting the rebel mission statement on the Internet is just part of the media campaign.
