summary: 
  The New York Times said in an editorial for Wednesday, Nov. 25: America Online's effort to acquire Netscape and set up a partnership with Sun Microsystems is a reminder of how rapidly the corporate landscape can change in fast-moving technical fields. The Internet has risen so quickly as an information medium that only four years ago, in his book ``The Road Ahead,'' Bill Gates scarcely mentions it. But until that day, fairness requires Justice Department action to insure that Microsoft not use its current position to thwart consumer choice. Only when companies know they can get their products to the consumer will they have the incentive to innovate and turn the Internet into the revolutionary medium it promises to be. 

 anti-summary: 
  The New York Times said in an editorial for Wednesday, Nov. 25: America Online's effort to acquire Netscape and set up a partnership with Sun Microsystems is a reminder of how rapidly the corporate landscape can change in fast-moving technical fields. But it does not lessen the need for the Justice Department to vigorously pursue its antitrust suit against Microsoft, the dominant player in software. In addition, only a couple of years ago America Online, the world's biggest online service, was having so much trouble getting rid of the bugs in the system it was widely derided as ``America On Hold. Now in the corridors outside the antitrust trial Microsoft's lawyers maintain that Netscape has found a new partner in America Online and has no need of protection from the government.

 textrank summary:
 In addition, only a couple of years ago America Online, the world's biggest online service, was having so much trouble getting rid of the bugs in the system it was widely derided as ``America On Hold. Now in the corridors outside the antitrust trial Microsoft's lawyers maintain that Netscape has found a new partner in America Online and has no need of protection from the government. But until that day, fairness requires Justice Department action to insure that Microsoft not use its current position to thwart consumer choice. Only when companies know they can get their products to the consumer will they have the incentive to innovate and turn the Internet into the revolutionary medium it promises to be. 
