summary: 
  In rites building from low flares symbolizing dawn to a fiery cauldron lighting, Thailand's king opened the Asian Games Sunday night, giving Thais some respite from an economic crisis that once threatened the continent's Olympic-style event. King Bhumibol Adulyadej, the world's longest-reigning monarch, was upstaged slightly by Japan's Naoko Takahashi. In a marathon run in early morning, to avoid the worst of Bangkok's tropical heat, she won the games' first gold medal in a time just one minute off the world record. Her medal ceremony immediately preceded the official opening festivities for two weeks of competition among 6,000 athletes from 41 nations. In all, 377 gold medals are at stake in 36 sports, including Asian specialities such as kabaddi and sepak takraw. Songs written by the king, a talented jazz composer, were played by the Bangkok Symphony Orchestra. A cascade of fireworks in honor of his 71st birthday Saturday and dancers who prostrated themselves on the field welcomed the monarch to his seat in the royal box. Outside the stadium before the ceremony, long lines of people waited to take photos of themselves in front of a plastic statue of the games' elephant mascot, ``Chai-yo. '' Several thousand people without tickets milled around outside, waving small Thai flags and waiting for a glimpse of the king. In warming up the audience before the ceremonies, a Thai comedian jested: ``If you're Saudi, raise your hand.

 anti-summary: 
 Saudi Arabia, which withdrew its team at the last minute, was represented by only a flag bearer. The Sri Lankan team was led by six dancers in bright costumes, who delighted the crowd in the 60,000-seat stadium with acrobatic maneuvers. Each team was led by a Thai beauty queen holding its signboard. '' One, Sakchai Pungsrinon, a 30-year-old piping engineer, who paid 1,000 baht (dlrs 26) for his ceremonies ticket, said, ``Thailand has many problems. For the competing nations _ many sending reduced teams to ease the pinch of the Asian crisis _ the games are a proving ground for the 2000 Olympics in Sydney, Australia. ``It's not just getting a gold, it's getting a gold with a result that is close or at world standards,'' said Li Furong, deputy head of China's Asian Games delegation. '' Sunday's focus was more on pageantry, beginning with slightly built Prime Minister Chuan Leekpai leading off a torch relay at 9:09 a.m. (0209 GMT), reflecting popular belief that nine is a lucky number. The field became a swirl of giant snakes, swans, birds, angels, and other mystical creatures. Another performance celebrating the unity of Asia capped the show, with four large swan floats pulled to the middle of the field, each tethered to a giant balloon symbolizing the sun, moon, earth and a giant lotus. In warming up the audience before the ceremonies, a Thai comedian jested: ``If you're Saudi, raise your hand.

 textrank summary:
 Thai officials who approached him at the ceremony did so on their knees. Others greeting the king included International Olympic Committee President Juan Antonio Samaranch. Then came the athletes, starting with Cambodia and ending with the host Thai team. Saudi Arabia, which withdrew its team at the last minute, was represented by only a flag bearer. The Sri Lankan team was led by six dancers in bright costumes, who delighted the crowd in the 60,000-seat stadium with acrobatic maneuvers. A giant cauldron atop the stadium was lit by touching a torch to a smaller cauldron inside a model of a temple, which then was lifted on an elevator and sent an explosion of sparks into the games' flame receptacle. Asia also has many problems. '' Sunday's focus was more on pageantry, beginning with slightly built Prime Minister Chuan Leekpai leading off a torch relay at 9:09 a.m. (0209 GMT), reflecting popular belief that nine is a lucky number. Bhumibol is the ninth king of the current dynasty. The field became a swirl of giant snakes, swans, birds, angels, and other mystical creatures.
