summary: 
 That's because the host city offers the punchy mix of Viagra and notorious night life. The Sri Lankan participants, who had to sign a code of conduct before coming to Bangkok, are being watched by an army brigadier with a track record of high discipline. Thailand, especially the capital Bangkok, is known worldwide for its titillating night life. Under Thailand's drug rules, Viagra is not available in drug stores, but is sold only in hospital pharmacies with a prescription from a urologist, cardiologist, endocrinologist or psychiatrist for 400 baht (about dlrs 10) a dose. ``No way,'' said Gurdayal Singh Mander, leader of the Indian contingent, when asked if there was a risk of lack in discipline. ``They know all about it and they know all about Bangkok. For the Sri Lankans, ``we have told them that they will not be allowed outside the games village until they finish their discipline,'' said Upali Bandaratillaka, a serving brigadier in the Sri Lankan army. ``Even if they want to go to shopping, one of us will accompany them,'' Bandaratillaka said. Host Thailand is stressing that sex isn't lurking around every corner. ``Thai traditional massage is considered an art form,'' said Prarop Laovanich, secretary of the Asian Games Sub-Committee for Culture and Performance.

 anti-summary: 
  For some teams, ``out of bounds'' at the Asian Games means more than just a line on a soccer field or basketball floor. The Pakistanis say all their athletes and officials for the games opening Sunday have been told not to even think of the wonder drug and ``night life ideas. Thailand, especially the capital Bangkok, is known worldwide for its titillating night life. Minutely detailed photo albums seek to arouse sensual fantasies. Under Thailand's drug rules, Viagra is not available in drug stores, but is sold only in hospital pharmacies with a prescription from a urologist, cardiologist, endocrinologist or psychiatrist for 400 baht (about dlrs 10) a dose. But there is a black market in the drug that might prove an attraction for some among the more than 15,000 athletes, officials and media personnel in Bangkok. ``Oh, Viagra,'' exclaimed Pakistani medical officer Yousef Baig. We have told them, don't break our trust and keep the good name of Pakistan flying high,'' Dr. Baig said. China has taken a similar approach. His deputy is a police officer.

 textrank summary:
 The Pakistanis say all their athletes and officials for the games opening Sunday have been told not to even think of the wonder drug and ``night life ideas. The Sri Lankan participants, who had to sign a code of conduct before coming to Bangkok, are being watched by an army brigadier with a track record of high discipline. From taxi drivers to local tourist magazines distributed free at hotels, there are messengers aplenty to advertise massage parlors and escort services. ``No way,'' said Gurdayal Singh Mander, leader of the Indian contingent, when asked if there was a risk of lack in discipline. The Pakistanis have opted for trust and nationalism. ``Oh, Viagra,'' exclaimed Pakistani medical officer Yousef Baig. ``They know all about it and they know all about Bangkok. We have told them, don't break our trust and keep the good name of Pakistan flying high,'' Dr. Baig said. Host Thailand is stressing that sex isn't lurking around every corner. ``Thai traditional massage is considered an art form,'' said Prarop Laovanich, secretary of the Asian Games Sub-Committee for Culture and Performance.
