summary: 
  Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak met here Sunday with Syrian President Hafez Assad to try to defuse growing tension between Syria and Turkey. Mubarak left after the two-hour meeting without speaking to reporters. But Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa, who accompanied him on the trip, said before their departure that Mubarak ``backs dialogue for solving disputes and not military power and threats. '' Egypt's Middle East News Agency quoted Moussa as saying that Arab support for Syria should not be read in Ankara as animosity toward Turkey. The agency also quoted Syrian Foreign Minister Farouq al-Sharaa as saying that Egypt and Syria ``agreed on the graveness of the situation and that it should be dealt with diplomatically and not through confrontation or threats. In a show of force on Friday, Turkish jets buzzed the Syrian frontier, a Turkish daily reported. '' Moussa said Mubarak had consulted by phone on Saturday with Assad and also conveyed a message to Turkish President Suleyman Demirel through Turkey's ambassador to Egypt, Yasser Yakis. Damascus also accuses Turkey of building a series of dams on the Euphrates River that threaten to reduce Syria's water supply. In Baghdad, the newspaper Babil, published by Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein's son Odai, reported the Turkish incursion into Iraq.

 anti-summary: 
 But Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa, who accompanied him on the trip, said before their departure that Mubarak ``backs dialogue for solving disputes and not military power and threats. The agency also quoted Syrian Foreign Minister Farouq al-Sharaa as saying that Egypt and Syria ``agreed on the graveness of the situation and that it should be dealt with diplomatically and not through confrontation or threats. The talks in Damascus came as Turkey has massed forces near the border with Syria after threatening to eradicate Kurdish rebel bases in the neighboring country. ``We have to stop the tension and contain it, and military threats should stop,'' Mubarak told Egyptian reporters on Saturday. For its part, Syria has accused Turkey of forming military alliances with Israel that threaten Arab security and undermine Syria's bargaining position in peace talks with the Jewish state. In Baghdad, the newspaper Babil, published by Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein's son Odai, reported the Turkish incursion into Iraq. ``The region cannot bear another conflict nor an increase in the present tensions,'' Babil said in an editorial. ``The Turkish buildup does not serve anybody as much as it will harm Turkey and Syria and other parties in the region. Israel, for its part, said it does not want to become involved in any military confrontation between Syria and Turkey.

 textrank summary:
  Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak met here Sunday with Syrian President Hafez Assad to try to defuse growing tension between Syria and Turkey. '' Al-Sharaa said he hoped Mubarak's trip to Turkey would achieve results. Mubarak had made an unannounced trip to Riyadh on Saturday to get backing from King Fahd of Saudi Arabia for his mediation efforts. ``We have to stop the tension and contain it, and military threats should stop,'' Mubarak told Egyptian reporters on Saturday. For its part, Syria has accused Turkey of forming military alliances with Israel that threaten Arab security and undermine Syria's bargaining position in peace talks with the Jewish state. Damascus also accuses Turkey of building a series of dams on the Euphrates River that threaten to reduce Syria's water supply. '' The English-language Egyptian Gazette said in an editorial on Sunday that ``the Syrians, understandably, harbor the belief that Turkey is being manipulated by its new-found ally, Israel, to pounce,'' with the dispute over Kurdish rebels being a pretext. Israel, for its part, said it does not want to become involved in any military confrontation between Syria and Turkey. ``We have no part in this tension,'' Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told reporters in Jerusalem on Sunday.
