summary: 
  As Turkey kept up warlike rhetoric against Damascus, Egypt on Sunday began shuttle democracy between the two neighbors to avoid a military confrontation over Turkish Kurdish bases in Syria. Turkish President Suleyman Demirel said that Turkey was in a position of self-defense and had suffered for many years from Damascus' sheltering of the autonomy-seeking rebels. Some 10,000 Turkish troops were deployed this week on the Turkish-Syrian border, news reports said. Damascus denies that it is supporting the rebels, who wage cross-border raids from camps in Iraq, Iran and Syria. ``This situation is serious,'' Demirel said. But several military and civilian leaders here have said that if diplomacy fails, the military would be charged with solving the issue. We are determined to take all necessary measures if we don't see any response to our goodwill,'' the commander of Turkish land forces, Gen. Atilla Ates, said last week. Syria and Turkey have a long history of disagreements. Damascus is concerned by Ankara's plans to build dams on the Euphrates River, a key source of water for Syria, while Turkey accuses Syria of having aspirations over a Turkish border province, Hatay, which has a sizable Arab population. 

 anti-summary: 
 Turkish President Suleyman Demirel said that Turkey was in a position of self-defense and had suffered for many years from Damascus' sheltering of the autonomy-seeking rebels. ``This situation is serious,'' Demirel said. '' He did not elaborate and it was unclear whether Demirel was warning of a possible military confrontation. But several military and civilian leaders here have said that if diplomacy fails, the military would be charged with solving the issue. In an attempt to the ease tension that many fear may spill over into the entire Middle East, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak met with his Syrian counterpart Hafez Assad in Damascus. Egypt's Middle East News Agency quoted Syrian Foreign Minister Farouq al-Sharaa as saying that Egypt and Syria ``agreed on the graveness of the situation and that it should be dealt with diplomatically and not through confrontation or threats. Fueling tension between the two countries are Turkey and Israel's expanding military and diplomatic ties. Syria claims the ties are a threat to the Arab world, and on Saturday, Damascus again accused Turkey of plotting with Israel to undermine Syria. On Sunday, the Arab League called on Turkey to end its military cooperation with Israel.

 textrank summary:
  As Turkey kept up warlike rhetoric against Damascus, Egypt on Sunday began shuttle democracy between the two neighbors to avoid a military confrontation over Turkish Kurdish bases in Syria. Turkish President Suleyman Demirel said that Turkey was in a position of self-defense and had suffered for many years from Damascus' sheltering of the autonomy-seeking rebels. Some 10,000 Turkish troops were deployed this week on the Turkish-Syrian border, news reports said. ``This situation is serious,'' Demirel said. But several military and civilian leaders here have said that if diplomacy fails, the military would be charged with solving the issue. Another report claimed the Turkish army had been put on alert. Fueling tension between the two countries are Turkey and Israel's expanding military and diplomatic ties. '' Israel has also instructed its army to limit military maneuvers along its border with Syria to avoid giving any impression that Israel is poised to act. On Sunday, the Arab League called on Turkey to end its military cooperation with Israel.
