summary: 
 Prime Minister Rafik Hariri said his country backs Syria in the dispute, which was triggered Sunday when Turkish President Suleyman Demirel warned Damascus that his country would not allow its neighbor to continue sheltering Kurdish rebels. ``The Turkish threats are the first outcome of the Turkish-Israeli strategic alliance,'' Hariri was quoted as saying. The Lebanese press also accused Israel of inflaming the tensions. Israeli officials had no immediate comment because it is the Sukkot holiday and all government offices are closed. Meanwhile, Syria's Assad received messages of support from Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah bin Abdel-Aziz and from the leaders of Yemen and Sudan, said Syria's official news agency, SANA. The Arab leaders called for diplomatic solution to the crisis. 

 anti-summary: 
  Lebanon on Monday denied it is harboring Kurdish rebels and blamed Israel for the rising tension between Syria and Turkey. President Elias Hrawi traveled to Damascus Monday for a summit meeting with President Hafez Assad to show Lebanon's support for Syria. He called for a ``diplomatic dialogue'' to defuse the tension, said Assad's spokesman Jubran Kourieh. Ankara has sent troops to its border with Syria, prompting fears of an attack. ``We stand by Syria's side, especially in its call for resolving disputes with Turkey in the framework of a peaceful dialogue,'' the Lebanese prime minister said in an interview with An-Nahar daily. The Lebanese press also accused Israel of inflaming the tensions.

 textrank summary:
  Lebanon on Monday denied it is harboring Kurdish rebels and blamed Israel for the rising tension between Syria and Turkey. Prime Minister Rafik Hariri said his country backs Syria in the dispute, which was triggered Sunday when Turkish President Suleyman Demirel warned Damascus that his country would not allow its neighbor to continue sheltering Kurdish rebels. ``We stand by Syria's side, especially in its call for resolving disputes with Turkey in the framework of a peaceful dialogue,'' the Lebanese prime minister said in an interview with An-Nahar daily. Hariri said Turkey's military moves were the product of its newly forged military alliance with Israel. Israeli officials had no immediate comment because it is the Sukkot holiday and all government offices are closed. Since the Syrian-Turkish crisis began, Israeli defense minister Yitzhak Mordechai has said Israel is not a party to it and that the Israeli-Turkish military coooperation is not directed against any third state.
