summary: 
  Aid workers struggled Friday to reach survivors of Hurricane Mitch, who are in danger of dying from starvation and disease in the wake of the storm that officials estimate killed more than 10,000 people. In the Aguan River Valley in northern Honduras, floodwaters have receded, leaving a carpet of mud over hundreds of acres (hectares). A score of cargo aircraft landed Thursday at the normally quiet Toncontin airport in the Honduran capital of Tegucigalpa, delivering aid from Mexico, the United States, Japan and Argentina. ``We hope this visit will help call attention to the suffering and humanitarian need this disaster has created,'' Carter said in a statement. Clinton is dispatching a delegation next week led by Tipper Gore, wife of Vice President Al Gore, to deliver some of the supplies destined for Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala. First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton added Nicaragua and Honduras to a trip she plans to the region beginning Nov. 16. Nicaraguan leaders previously had refused Cuba's offer of medical help, saying it did not have the means to transport or support the doctors.

 anti-summary: 
 Foreign aid and pledges of assistance poured into Central America, but damage to roads and bridges reduced the amount of supplies reaching hundreds of isolated communities to a trickle: only as much as could be dropped from a helicopter, when the aircraft can get through. A score of cargo aircraft landed Thursday at the normally quiet Toncontin airport in the Honduran capital of Tegucigalpa, delivering aid from Mexico, the United States, Japan and Argentina. Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter and his wife, Rosalynn, intended to visit Nicaragua on Friday to learn more about the hurricane's impact, The Carter Center in Atlanta announced. Clinton is dispatching a delegation next week led by Tipper Gore, wife of Vice President Al Gore, to deliver some of the supplies destined for Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala. First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton added Nicaragua and Honduras to a trip she plans to the region beginning Nov. 16. Two British ships that were in the area on an exercise were on their way to Honduras to join relief efforts, the Defense Ministry said Friday. ``It's a coincidence that the ships are there but they've got men and equipment that can be put to work in an organized way,'' said International Development Secretary Clare Short.

 textrank summary:
 Foreign aid and pledges of assistance poured into Central America, but damage to roads and bridges reduced the amount of supplies reaching hundreds of isolated communities to a trickle: only as much as could be dropped from a helicopter, when the aircraft can get through. The children are suffering, even dying,'' said the Rev. U.S. President Bill Clinton requested a ``global relief effort'' to help Central America and boosted U.S. emergency aid to dlrs 70 million. First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton added Nicaragua and Honduras to a trip she plans to the region beginning Nov. 16. Two British ships that were in the area on an exercise were on their way to Honduras to join relief efforts, the Defense Ministry said Friday. Nicaragua said Friday it will accept Cuba's offer to send doctors as long as the communist nation flies them in on its own helicopters and with their own supplies. Nicaraguan leaders previously had refused Cuba's offer of medical help, saying it did not have the means to transport or support the doctors.
