summary: 
  Better information from Honduras' ravaged countryside enabled officials to lower the confirmed death toll from Hurricane Mitch from 7,000 to about 6,100 on Thursday, but leaders insisted the need for help was growing. President Carlos Flores declared Hurricane Mitch had set back Honduras' development by 50 years. He urged the more than 1.5 million Hondurans affected by the storm to help with the recovery effort. Six people died in southern Mexico and seven in Costa Rica. She later will stop in El Salvador and Guatemala before continuing on to Haiti and the Dominican Republic for a visit that had been canceled due to Hurricane Georges, which struck the Caribbean in October. The weakened storm crossed southern Florida on Thursday, damaging mobile homes and buildings and injuring at least seven people. Surveyors have yet to evaluate roughly 10 percent of the most affected areas _ the departments of Cortes, Atlantida, Colon and Yoro in the north, southern Choluteca and Valle, and the central department of Francisco Morazan, which includes the capital. It also was pulling food from warehouses at its base in Rome, probably for delivery by emergency relief flights, spokesman Trevor Rowe said. Doctors volunteering at a shelter housing 4,000 people at Tegucigalpa's Polytechnic Development Institute said they'd heard of the campaign but had yet to receive word or medicines from the Health Ministry. ``We have to vaccinate the children,'' said Dr. Mario Soto, who has treated at least 300 children at the shelter for diarrhea, conjunctivitis and bacterial infections. 

 anti-summary: 
  Better information from Honduras' ravaged countryside enabled officials to lower the confirmed death toll from Hurricane Mitch from 7,000 to about 6,100 on Thursday, but leaders insisted the need for help was growing. He urged the more than 1.5 million Hondurans affected by the storm to help with the recovery effort. Aid groups and governments have called for other countries to send medicine, water, canned food, roofing materials and equipment to help deliver supplies. Hillary Rodham Clinton also will travel to the region, visiting Nicaragua and Honduras on Nov. 16. Urbizo said Honduran officials hoped the scale of need in next-door Nicaragua wouldn't overshadow Honduras' plight. Thursday's relief operations paled in comparison to the scope of the disaster. More help was on the way. Mexico was sending 700 tons of food, 11 tons of medicine, at least 12 helicopters, four cargo planes and 475 soldiers to help in relief operations. The U.N. World Food Program said Thursday it was diverting ships, some already at sea, to rush their cargoes of donated food to Central America. ``We're trying to move food as fast as possible to help people as soon as possible,'' Rowe said.

 textrank summary:
 El Salvador reported 239 dead; Guatemala said 194 of its people had been killed. Six people died in southern Mexico and seven in Costa Rica. Honduran authorities still don't know how many shelters have been set up across the Central American country. Thursday's relief operations paled in comparison to the scope of the disaster. More help was on the way. Mexico was sending 700 tons of food, 11 tons of medicine, at least 12 helicopters, four cargo planes and 475 soldiers to help in relief operations. The U.N. World Food Program said Thursday it was diverting ships, some already at sea, to rush their cargoes of donated food to Central America. It also was pulling food from warehouses at its base in Rome, probably for delivery by emergency relief flights, spokesman Trevor Rowe said. ``We're trying to move food as fast as possible to help people as soon as possible,'' Rowe said. ``From here we'll continue searching downriver.
