summary: 
 On Monday, White House negotiators, led by chief of staff Erskine Bowles, tried to determine whether Democrats would accept a deal to finance for six months the departments of State, Justice and Commerce, which oversees the Census Bureau. Bowles told the group of Democrats that the House Republicans were willing to give on a number of outstanding issues that were stalling final agreement on the budget, but that they were digging in their heels when it came to financing the census for six months. But House Democrats balked at the idea of six months' financing for the census, arguing that even if the Supreme Court allowed sampling, the Republicans would be under no obligation to approve money for a census that included sampling. Democrats contend that now is the time to press the Republicans, while they want to complete work on the budget and go home to campaign. At Monday's meeting, the Democrats reminded administration officials that Clinton had promised that he would veto any legislation that restricted the Census Bureau's ability to conduct an accurate census. ``Gephardt is a major player now, and the irony is we helped make him that,'' said Rep. Christopher Shays, R-Conn., who supports the use of sampling in the census. The idea then was that holding all three departments hostage in the census fight would place maximum pressure on all sides to work out their differences over sampling. At a meeting of the Democratic caucus Tuesday, Ms. Maloney briefed lawmakers on dealings with the White House and declared that Clinton had promised that he would hold firm on the census and that she believed him, a participant said. The statement was greeted with laughter.

 anti-summary: 
 The deal would put off until next March the contentious issue of whether the next census would use statistical sampling to supplement traditional methods of counting people. The Supreme Court has already agreed to review two lower court rulings that said sampling would violate federal law. Oral arguments on the cases are set for November. ``The general feeling among many Democrats was that even if we won the case, there would be a lot less leverage in March, especially if it was the only issue left to be debated,'' said a House Democratic official who insisted on anonymity. We've been able to accomplish great things, what do you think? Republicans fear, and Democrats hope, that the method would raise the count of people living in traditionally Democratic areas, giving the party an advantage when new boundaries for election districts are drawn following the 2000 census. ``Gephardt is a major player now, and the irony is we helped make him that,'' said Rep. Christopher Shays, R-Conn., who supports the use of sampling in the census. The Democrats' position also indicates how little trust many have in the White House on this issue. The proposal to finance the departments of Commerce, Justice and State for six months is similar to one reached last November between Bowles and House Speaker Newt Gingrich.

 textrank summary:
  A sticking point for White House and congressional budget negotiators has been the issue of how the 2000 census will be conducted, and the White House is finding itself negotiating on the issue as much with House Democrats as it is with the House Republican leaders. The deal would put off until next March the contentious issue of whether the next census would use statistical sampling to supplement traditional methods of counting people. Bowles told the group of Democrats that the House Republicans were willing to give on a number of outstanding issues that were stalling final agreement on the budget, but that they were digging in their heels when it came to financing the census for six months. But House Democrats balked at the idea of six months' financing for the census, arguing that even if the Supreme Court allowed sampling, the Republicans would be under no obligation to approve money for a census that included sampling. We've been able to accomplish great things, what do you think? ``I can't think of any way that restricts the census more than not to fully fund it,'' said Rep. Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y. The Democrats' position also indicates how little trust many have in the White House on this issue. The idea then was that holding all three departments hostage in the census fight would place maximum pressure on all sides to work out their differences over sampling. At a meeting of the Democratic caucus Tuesday, Ms. Maloney briefed lawmakers on dealings with the White House and declared that Clinton had promised that he would hold firm on the census and that she believed him, a participant said.
