summary: 
 The severed heads of the four men were found lined up along a highway Tuesday outside Chechnya's capital Grozny, and hundreds of Chechen law enforcement officers were searching for the bodies Wednesday. The victims _ Britons Peter Kennedy, Darren Hickey, and Rudolf Petschi, and New Zealand's Stanley Shaw _ were identified by their former bodyguard. ``He was just making a career for himself,'' Hickey's sister Deborah, 21, said Wednesday, fighting back tears. ``He was fantastic with electrics and all that sort of stuff. '' The family had expected 26-year-old Hickey to be back at his parents' pub in Thames Ditton, England, by Christmas.

 anti-summary: 
 The deaths _ and the ostentatious display of the heads by killers _ prompted neighboring Russian regions to close off roads into Chechnya, and caused an outpouring of outrage and lament from Russian and foreign officials. Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov said Wednesday that one alleged kidnapper had been arrested and authorities gleaned enough information to launch a rescue operation for the hostages, three Britons and a New Zealander. But during the rescue attempt the kidnappers panicked and decapitated the captives, Maskhadov said, according to Russian media reports. ``A concrete criminal group was identified, an organizer of the abductions was arrested and an approximate location of the hostages was determined,'' Maskhadov said in a statement. '' The family had expected 26-year-old Hickey to be back at his parents' pub in Thames Ditton, England, by Christmas.

 textrank summary:
 Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov said Wednesday that one alleged kidnapper had been arrested and authorities gleaned enough information to launch a rescue operation for the hostages, three Britons and a New Zealander. But during the rescue attempt the kidnappers panicked and decapitated the captives, Maskhadov said, according to Russian media reports. The victims _ Britons Peter Kennedy, Darren Hickey, and Rudolf Petschi, and New Zealand's Stanley Shaw _ were identified by their former bodyguard. ``He was just making a career for himself,'' Hickey's sister Deborah, 21, said Wednesday, fighting back tears. '' The family had expected 26-year-old Hickey to be back at his parents' pub in Thames Ditton, England, by Christmas.
