summary: 
 Officials at the prosecutor's office said unidentified attackers seized Tagirov, and authorities speculated it was the work of an armed band seeking the release of one of its members from prison. Meanwhile, Chechen Deputy Prime Minister Turpal Atgeriyev said authorities had arrested a man who confessed to kidnapping the four foreigners. The suspect was identified as Apti Abitayev, the ITAR-Tass news agency said. Chechen security forces were searching Friday for additional suspects as well as the bodies of the four foreigners. ``There are certain methods that might force a person to confess to any crime,'' Atgeriyev said. Hundreds of people have been kidnapped, mostly for ransom. Only a handful of soldiers kidnapped during the war are still in captivity.

 anti-summary: 
 Officials at the prosecutor's office said unidentified attackers seized Tagirov, and authorities speculated it was the work of an armed band seeking the release of one of its members from prison. The victims _ Peter Kennedy, Darren Hickey and Rudolf Petschi of Britain and Stanley Shaw of New Zealand _ were abducted Oct. 3 by unidentified gunmen in Grozny. It was not clear if there was any link between Tagirov's abduction and his investigation into the killings of the four men. Chechen officials refused to answer any questions about the tape, including where or when it was filmed and how the government got it. Since Chechnya's two-year independence war with Russia ended in 1996, feuding gangs have waged bloody turf wars. Meanwhile, a Russian soldier taken hostage during the war was released after a year of efforts to free him, ITAR-Tass said Friday. Only a handful of soldiers kidnapped during the war are still in captivity.

 textrank summary:
 Officials at the prosecutor's office said unidentified attackers seized Tagirov, and authorities speculated it was the work of an armed band seeking the release of one of its members from prison. Tagirov was investigating the deaths of four foreigners whose severed heads were found Tuesday lined up by a roadside in the breakaway Russian republic. Meanwhile, Chechen Deputy Prime Minister Turpal Atgeriyev said authorities had arrested a man who confessed to kidnapping the four foreigners. The suspect was identified as Apti Abitayev, the ITAR-Tass news agency said. Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov will allow British government agents to come to Chechnya to investigate the killing, Atgeriyev said, according to the Interfax news agency. Meanwhile, a Russian soldier taken hostage during the war was released after a year of efforts to free him, ITAR-Tass said Friday. Only a handful of soldiers kidnapped during the war are still in captivity.
