summary: 
  BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) - The European Union on Tuesday approved 6.4 million European currency units (dlrs 7.7 million) in aid for thousands of victims of the devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch in Central America. EU spokesman Pietro Petrucci said the funds will be used to provide basic care such as medicine, food, water sanitation and blankets to thousands of people whose homes were destroyed by torrential rains and mudslides. Officials in Central America estimated Tuesday that about 7,000 people have died in the region. But its own regional affiliate in San Miguel province reported 125 dead there alone. the EU approved for the region on Friday.

 anti-summary: 
  BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) - The European Union on Tuesday approved 6.4 million European currency units (dlrs 7.7 million) in aid for thousands of victims of the devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch in Central America. EU spokesman Pietro Petrucci said the funds will be used to provide basic care such as medicine, food, water sanitation and blankets to thousands of people whose homes were destroyed by torrential rains and mudslides. The aid will be distributed in Nicaragua, El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala which have most suffered from Mitch's deadly passage, the EU executive Commission said in a statement. Officials in Central America estimated Tuesday that about 7,000 people have died in the region. The greatest losses were reported in Honduras, where an estimated 5,000 people died and 600,000 people _ 10 percent of the population _ were forced to flee their homes after last week's storm.

 textrank summary:
 EU spokesman Pietro Petrucci said the funds will be used to provide basic care such as medicine, food, water sanitation and blankets to thousands of people whose homes were destroyed by torrential rains and mudslides. The aid will be distributed in Nicaragua, El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala which have most suffered from Mitch's deadly passage, the EU executive Commission said in a statement. Officials in Central America estimated Tuesday that about 7,000 people have died in the region. The greatest losses were reported in Honduras, where an estimated 5,000 people died and 600,000 people _ 10 percent of the population _ were forced to flee their homes after last week's storm. the EU approved for the region on Friday.
