summary: 
 The speech, to senior law enforcement officials, used uncompromising language heard less frequently over the past 18 months as Chinese leaders sought to improve relations abroad. He noted two key events on the political calendar: the 50th anniversary of Communist Party rule on Oct. 1 and China's recovery of the Portuguese colony of Macau on Dec. 20. He likened their threat to that of white-collar and ordinary criminals and ticked off a list of potentially volatile problems _ inefficient state industries, legions of laid-off workers, stagnating farmers' incomes and corrupt officials. The emphasis on stability and warnings to those who would disrupt it were reminiscent of party pronouncements in the waning years of Jiang's mentor, Deng Xiaoping. After Deng died in 1997 and Jiang emerged victorious from a major party conclave, he projected a more confident image. Party leaders too touted efforts to build a more comprehensive, predictable legal system and won praise from Western governments for signing U.N. rights treaties. Despite the swift punishments given the three, dissidents have continued to campaign for justice. Four elder members of the dissident community sent a letter to U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan and U.N. human rights commissioner Mary Robinson calling on China to stop persecuting political critics and release political prisoners. The fasts were to have begun with lawyer Wang Wenjiang, whom authorities prevented from representing Wang Youcai, and Wang Zechen in Liaoning province in northeastern China, but the two activists were detained by police Wednesday evening, the Hong Kong-based center said.

 anti-summary: 
 Dissidents are rarely mentioned by official media, and the reports served as a warning to China's 1.2 billion people. ``We must strengthen the ideological and political education of officials and raise their awareness of and resistance to the sabotaging acts of hostile domestic and foreign forces,'' China Central Television quoted Jiang as saying. '' Jiang did not exclusively target political enemies. Academic debates over the past year were the boldest in 10 years by China's relatively controlled standards. ``Our active developments of foreign affairs has reached new achievements,'' Jiang said. '' By arresting and convicting Xu, Qin and Wang in less than three weeks, China trampled its own legal safeguards for criminal suspects and raised questions about its commitments to U.N. rights treaties it signed over the past 15 months. Despite the swift punishments given the three, dissidents have continued to campaign for justice. ``We have experienced extreme disappointment, worry and shock'' over the long sentences given Xu, Qin and Wang and the recent detentions of several other Chinese, the four wrote in a letter dated Tuesday that was released by New York-based Human Rights in China on Wednesday. The fasts were to have begun with lawyer Wang Wenjiang, whom authorities prevented from representing Wang Youcai, and Wang Zechen in Liaoning province in northeastern China, but the two activists were detained by police Wednesday evening, the Hong Kong-based center said.

 textrank summary:
 He demanded that officials ``talk politics'' _ a euphemism for following party orders. In the speech, reported by state television, Jiang said stability was crucial over the next year. ``Whenever any element that undermines stability raises its head, it must be resolutely nipped in the bud. '' Jiang did not exclusively target political enemies. The emphasis on stability and warnings to those who would disrupt it were reminiscent of party pronouncements in the waning years of Jiang's mentor, Deng Xiaoping. Reform, not stability, were the bywords of the past year. Academic debates over the past year were the boldest in 10 years by China's relatively controlled standards. Four elder members of the dissident community sent a letter to U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan and U.N. human rights commissioner Mary Robinson calling on China to stop persecuting political critics and release political prisoners. ``We have experienced extreme disappointment, worry and shock'' over the long sentences given Xu, Qin and Wang and the recent detentions of several other Chinese, the four wrote in a letter dated Tuesday that was released by New York-based Human Rights in China on Wednesday.
