summary: 
  Six months after President Clinton traveled to Beijing and challenged China's leaders to move rapidly toward political reform, the administration's policy of engaging Beijing was called into question Monday when Chinese courts sentenced three of the nation's most prominent dissidents to long jail sentences. The State Department said it had received reports from sources it did not identify that a third leading democracy campaigner, Qin Yongmin, had been sentenced to 13 years in prison after a trial last week in the city of Wuhan. Given Clinton's effusive praise for China's senior leaders during his trip to Beijing last summer, the administration found itself on the defensive Monday and harshly criticized the prison sentences, even as it continued to insist that the administration's policy of engagement was helping push Beijing toward democracy. The severe prison terms _ and other recent instances of harassment of democracy campaigners in China _ are ``steps backward in relationship to what had been an improved human rights performance,'' he said. '' Mike Jendrzejczyk, Washington director for Human Rights Group, said the jail terms were proof of the need for the administration to revise its China policy, which he described as ``almost entirely'' driven by the administration's desire to encourage trade. He said that while there had been some signs of progress in the human rights situation in China over the last year _ notably, China's agreement to sign international treaties on civil and economic rights _ the overall picture was bleak. ``On balance,'' he said, ``any progress China has made by allowing greater openness may have been canceled out by a more repressive attitude. Peter Rodman, a former Nixon and Reagan administration official now at the Nixon Center in Washington, said that ``the United States cannot control the evolution of a society as complex as China's. ``The pattern of this regime is that every once in a while, they ease up a bit and somebody goes too far and there's a crisis,'' he said.

 anti-summary: 
 Relatives of Qin in China denied the reports, however, and said that his trial continued. While condemning the prison sentences, Foley and other American officials were careful to note the administration's assessment that there had been progress in human rights in China, some of it linked to Clinton's meeting in Beijing with Chinese President Jiang Zemin. ``The Western mode of political systems must never be copied,'' he said, adding that those who challenged the Communist Party's supremacy would be crushed. '' ``They are pathetic, really pathetic,'' she said of the administration. ``The administration can say what it wants, but it must know Monday that its policy on China is an embarrassment. He said that while there had been some signs of progress in the human rights situation in China over the last year _ notably, China's agreement to sign international treaties on civil and economic rights _ the overall picture was bleak. ``That would get Beijing's attention,'' Jendrzejczck said. Other China experts and scholars insisted that the administration was right to continue its policy of engagement with China, and that there was reason to believe that political reform would follow economic reform, as Clinton has argued. ``The pattern of this regime is that every once in a while, they ease up a bit and somebody goes too far and there's a crisis,'' he said.

 textrank summary:
 The State Department said it had received reports from sources it did not identify that a third leading democracy campaigner, Qin Yongmin, had been sentenced to 13 years in prison after a trial last week in the city of Wuhan. Relatives of Qin in China denied the reports, however, and said that his trial continued. Critics of the administration's China policy noted that the long prison sentences were handed out less than a week after Jiang delivered a pointed speech in Beijing in which he made clear that China's economic reforms were not a prelude to Western-style democracy. Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., who has long been among China's harshest critics in Congress, said the prison sentences handed out to Xu and Wang were ``the clearest demonstration'' since the president's visit to China last summer of Beijing's ``true intentions regarding human rights. ``The administration can say what it wants, but it must know Monday that its policy on China is an embarrassment. '' Human Rights Watch, the largest American-based human rights group, called on the administration to consider postponing or canceling a planned visit to China early next year by Commerce Secretary William Daley and a high-level trade delegation as a protest over the prison sentences. ``That would get Beijing's attention,'' Jendrzejczck said. Other China experts and scholars insisted that the administration was right to continue its policy of engagement with China, and that there was reason to believe that political reform would follow economic reform, as Clinton has argued. Peter Rodman, a former Nixon and Reagan administration official now at the Nixon Center in Washington, said that ``the United States cannot control the evolution of a society as complex as China's.
