summary: 
 Portugal suspended the talks with Indonesia in New York last week following reports of a massacre of dozens of East Timorese rebels in a series of clashes with Indonesian troops. East Timor's spiritual leader, Roman Catholic Bishop Carlos Belo, has said that between 30 and 40 people were reportedly killed near the villages of Alas and Same, 40 kilometers (25 miles) southeast of Dili, East Timor capital. The 1996 Nobel Peace Prize winner said that so far, only 11 bodies had been identified. The New York-based group Human Rights Watch said some deaths had occurred in fights between rebels and Indonesian forces. Alatas said it was the third time that Portugal had unilaterally suspended talks over East Timor since 1986. The group earlier had spent one night occupying the provincial Parliament and vowed to stay at the governor's office. Meanwhile, an unidentified man, believed to be a rebel, was reported to have shot and wounded Izildo Pereira, a civilian, in Baucau, 100 kilometers (62 miles) east of Dili.

 anti-summary: 
 Portugal suspended the talks with Indonesia in New York last week following reports of a massacre of dozens of East Timorese rebels in a series of clashes with Indonesian troops. Alatas said the claims of a massacre were not true. Based on this, Alatas said, Indonesia was skeptical about Portugal's sincerity, Antara reported. In response, Portugal's Foreign Ministry accused Indonesia of breaking promises to reduce its military presence in East Timor and called for a permanent U.N. mission in the disputed territory. In a dialogue with the students' representatives, Governor Abilio Osorio Soares and military chief Col. Suhartono Suratman agreed to set up a team to make a thorough investigation. The United Nations, however, does not recognize Indonesia's claim. Before being suspended, the talks centered on an Indonesian offer to give East Timor autonomy in return for international recognition of Indonesian sovereignty there. 

 textrank summary:
 Alatas said the claims of a massacre were not true. The New York-based group Human Rights Watch said some deaths had occurred in fights between rebels and Indonesian forces. In response, Portugal's Foreign Ministry accused Indonesia of breaking promises to reduce its military presence in East Timor and called for a permanent U.N. mission in the disputed territory. ``Unfortunately, Indonesia has increased its deployment and the brutality of its military actions in East Timor,'' said ministry spokesman Horacio Cesar. In a dialogue with the students' representatives, Governor Abilio Osorio Soares and military chief Col. Suhartono Suratman agreed to set up a team to make a thorough investigation. Meanwhile, an unidentified man, believed to be a rebel, was reported to have shot and wounded Izildo Pereira, a civilian, in Baucau, 100 kilometers (62 miles) east of Dili. Izildo, 30, who was shot Sunday, was being treated at a military hospital in Dili.
