summary: 
 But the nation that bore Tolstoy and Chekhov, and still regards a well-written letter as a labor of love, is buckling a little this week, because it can no longer wish good health to Baba Anya in Omsk. So much mail is backed up that post offices in Moscow and elsewhere have simply stopped accepting out-of-town mail, except for areas that can be easily reached by truck. It turned out that politicians had exhausted their funds by cutting short their recess and returning to address the nation's economic crisis. Postal Service is increasingly a pipeline for sweepstakes notices and bills, the Russian Post Office still holds a special place in the national conversation. And in the last few years, the Post Office has become a vehicle for a growing mail-order trade in books, clothes and other catalog items not readily available outside big cities. The state Railway Ministry complains that it is continually stiffed by customers who believe the railroads are honor-bound to carry freight whether they are paid or not. The government has specified nearly 40 categories of freight which the railroads must carry for next to nothing. Among the biggest deadbeats are the ``power ministries'' _ the military and interior departments _ which did not pay during Soviet times and feel little need to pay now. In late September the railroads cut mail service in and out of Moscow, effectively decapitating the postal system and forcing officials to draft a fleet of trucks to move letters in and out of the city. Hundreds of empty and full rail cars have clogged some local yards to the point where moving cars into position for unloading has become difficult.

 anti-summary: 
 So much mail is backed up that post offices in Moscow and elsewhere have simply stopped accepting out-of-town mail, except for areas that can be easily reached by truck. ``The situation is really extraordinary,'' said Vladimir Sherekhov, the deputy chief of mail service administration in the government's Communications Committee. Extraordinary is the rule elsewhere in Russia. It turned out that politicians had exhausted their funds by cutting short their recess and returning to address the nation's economic crisis. ``It's a psychology formed during the socialist period,'' said Tatiana Pashkova, the deputy spokeswoman for the ministry, ``and the same situation exists with the Post Office. ``Here's competition between us and the railroads for the delivery of parcels, and I think decisions made by the railroads are mainly explained by this competition,'' Sherekhov said. ``They blame us for carrying some commercial cargoes instead of mail. In the meantime, the situation has come to a boil. Hundreds of empty and full rail cars have clogged some local yards to the point where moving cars into position for unloading has become difficult. ``We've gotten all kinds of complaints,'' said Viktor Salikov, a deputy in the Communications Department's mail shipping center.

 textrank summary:
 In 60 of the country's 89 statelike regions, more than 1,000 mail cars have been sidetracked, many stuffed with up to 18 tons of letters, newspapers and parcels. ``The situation is really extraordinary,'' said Vladimir Sherekhov, the deputy chief of mail service administration in the government's Communications Committee. We've been in dispute for a very long time. But we can't carry cargo for free. Moreover, the Post Office is also required by the government to carry some forms of mail, such as pension checks, at reduced rates. The railroads are still waiting for their share of that money, she said. In the meantime, the situation has come to a boil. At last count, 39 loaded cars were awaiting service at one yard. ``We've gotten all kinds of complaints,'' said Viktor Salikov, a deputy in the Communications Department's mail shipping center. ``People are even coming to us, searching for mail that was sent weeks ago.
