summary: 
 ``It has yet to be worked out. '' In most nations such a statement might provoke alarm. A newspaper, Kommersant Daily, published it in full Thursday morning. Wages and pensions would be paid in two months, and the minimum wage would be indexed to inflation. The exchange rate of the ruble would be set by the central bank, based on changes in inflation and the balance of payments. Maslyukov's plan also implies that Russians would be able to buy dollars at exchanges through the country. Russians have come to treat the dollar as a second currency, and many people have squirreled away dollars as a hedge against inflation. Or he may simply be trying to keep his distance from Maslyukov's plan while Russia tries to wrangle its next disbursement, $4.3 billion, from the International Monetary Fund. The particulars could be modified, but many people following the maneuvering say they believe that it represents the basic thrust of the government's thinking. ``We think it is close to being a final document,'' said the United Financial Group, a Russian investment business.

 anti-summary: 
  Russia's new prime minister picked an unusual way to reassure the nation Thursday. ``I want to repeat once more _ there is no program,'' Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov said. A main item on the agenda was the plan drafted by Yuri Maslyukov, a Communist and the government's senior policy maker on economic issues. It stipulates that hard currency could enter the country only with special authorization. Exporters would be required to sell most of their hard currency reserves. They will go to the black market if they need to. As the criticism grew, Primakov rushed to distance himself from the talk of currency controls. It is unclear how long Primakov can carry on without spelling out a detailed strategy. The ousted tax chief, Boris Fyodorov, has argued that the IMF should not provide further aid until Primakov has taken tough measures to build a free market. Or as Primakov put it Thursday, without the fund's money, Russia will have to impose ``unpopular measures.

 textrank summary:
 After two weeks of deliberations he announced that he still had no plan to rescue the country from its economic crisis. It did not take long for Maslyukov's plan to hit the street. Not surprisingly Maslyukov's plan calls for a greater state role in the economy, including controls on hard currency. Maslyukov's plan also implies that Russians would be able to buy dollars at exchanges through the country. It stipulates that hard currency could enter the country only with special authorization. Exporters would be required to sell most of their hard currency reserves. '' Yegor Gaidar, the former prime minister who favors free markets, said the plan was a ``war against the dollar'' and predicted that it would lead to a shortage of imports. ``The rumors of the state's becoming a monopolist on the inflow of hard currency into the country is nonsense,'' he said, asserting that the document published by Kommersant Daily was just one of six possible plans. He may be worried that the plan would would set off the panic buying of dollars, further depressing the ruble. The plan also has many similarities with the plan presented to the government by Gorbachev-era advisers.
