summary: 
 This year, in place of confident predictions, there are mutual recriminations. And the subtext of every seminar on capital flows and every conclave of nervous ministers will be some painfully blunt questions: Can this be stopped? ``He was told he had to dismantle the national airplane project, the clove monopoly, all the distribution monopolies. Historically, experts in politics and security have gravitated to the United Nations, development experts to the World Bank, and economists to the IMF _ creating dangerous gaps in a crisis like this one. As a result, the fund had only a rudimentary understanding of what would happen if its demands were met and all Indonesia's state monopolies were quickly dissolved. Ultimately, that may prove to be Indonesia's salvation, if the new government can contain the rioting against the ethnic Chinese minority _ whose money is desperately needed to save the country's fast-shrinking economy. Mindful of the backlash in Congress when Mexico was bailed out with U.S. money, that was the last thing the Treasury planned to do. ``We've just had a dispute with Michel,'' Rubin reported to his aides as he returned to his orange juice and croissant. Japan says it will be back with a similar proposal this weekend, this time for a $30 billion fund. Camdessus, though, was still hesitant, questioning whether the IMF should risk its scarce resources in Russia.

 anti-summary: 
 ``We frequently get the blame, some of it well-deserved,'' he said. We'd rather be loved, but more than that we'd like to be effective. '' At one point, Camdessus looked at the impassive Suharto and said, ``You see what this means for your family,'' a reference to their vast investments in the country's key industries. It must deliver rights no less than riches. ``It is a lot better. The Clinton administration admits that the IMF has many failings, many of them on display this year. Germany, Japan, France and Britain have about 5 percent each. ``We've just had a dispute with Michel,'' Rubin reported to his aides as he returned to his orange juice and croissant. In June, with Russia on its way to collapse, Camdessus declared that ``contrary to what markets and commentators are imagining'' about the slow collapse of Russia's economy, ``this is not a crisis. Last Christmas, as South Korea slipped within days of running out of hard currency to pay its debts in December, it sent a secret envoy, Kim Kihwan, to work out a rescue package.

 textrank summary:
 Or is the world headed for a global recession? Fifty-three years ago the IMF was created after the Bretton Woods conference which sought to stabilize the world economy and secure the peace after World War II. ``We frequently get the blame, some of it well-deserved,'' he said. ``It is worth noting,'' Fischer said this week, ``that our programs in Asia _ in Indonesia, Korea and Thailand _ only took hold after there was a change in government. '' IMF officials say they are changing strategies when they see they are exacting too great a social cost. The Clinton administration admits that the IMF has many failings, many of them on display this year. Only then does the IMF _ and the U.S. Treasury _ have the leverage to extract commitments in return for billions in aid. So the fund began assembling a last-ditch program to prop up a country that had resisted its reform plans for seven years. The first installment of that payment _ $4.8 billion _ was wasted, propping up the currency long enough, in the words of one IMF official, ``to let the oligarchs get their money out of the country. The Americans say the answer is more disclosure, so that investors are better warned, and tougher regulation.
