summary: 
  A week after the Turkish government fell in a corruption scandal, President Suleyman Demirel on Wednesday asked a veteran left-wing politician known for his personal honesty, Bulent Ecevit, to form a new government. Ecevit, who served as prime minister three times in the 1970s, said he would immediately begin working to fashion a government that could command a majority in the faction-ridden Parliament. ``It is wrong to see this government as simply an election government,'' he said. The commanders are also hoping to exclude two of the country's leading politicians, outgoing Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz and former Prime Minister Tansu Ciller, neither of whom they trust, from posts in the new government. He was prime minister when Turkey sent troops to occupy northern Cyprus in 1974 and is still considered a hard-liner on Cyprus. During his terms as prime minister in the 1970s, Ecevit successfully undermined efforts to move Turkey toward membership in the European Union, then called the European Economic Community. He considered it an instrument of capitalist exploitation. He and his wife carefully screen applicants for membership and veto those whose personal loyalty to Ecevit is suspect. ``During his terms as prime minister in the '70s, Ecevit did not appear to be a consensus builder,'' said Ilter Turan, a professor of political science at Bilgi University in Istanbul. '' Almost alone among Turkish politicians, Ecevit lives modestly and has avoided any hint of personal or financial scandal.

 anti-summary: 
 He also suggested that although Parliament has set April 18 as the date for a new election, he might seek to remain in power for a longer period. '' Military commanders, who hold ultimate power in Turkey, have quietly told senior political figures, including Demirel, that they do not want a quick election. They fear it will produce a Parliament just as divided as the present one, perhaps with the Islamic-oriented Virtue Party as the largest bloc. In a meeting this week the country's senior policy-making body, the National Security Council, in which military officers have a strong say, set three priorities for the coming months. Among Ecevit's immediate challenges will be to resolve a political crisis with Italy that broke out last month when the Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan was arrested in Rome and then asked for political asylum there. Ecevit (pronounced EH-che-vit) is among the few senior Turkish politicians who favors the abolition of capital punishment. Together with Demirel, Ecevit is often cited by Turks who complain about the continued dominance of a geriatric political elite here. He is 73 and has been in politics for most of his adult life. He considered it an instrument of capitalist exploitation. Eliot into Turkish and published several volumes of his own poems. 

 textrank summary:
  A week after the Turkish government fell in a corruption scandal, President Suleyman Demirel on Wednesday asked a veteran left-wing politician known for his personal honesty, Bulent Ecevit, to form a new government. Ecevit, who served as prime minister three times in the 1970s, said he would immediately begin working to fashion a government that could command a majority in the faction-ridden Parliament. ``It is wrong to see this government as simply an election government,'' he said. ``There are problems that will not wait until an election. Ecevit must now try to build a government that includes their center-right parties but not them as individuals. Together with Demirel, Ecevit is often cited by Turks who complain about the continued dominance of a geriatric political elite here. Perhaps more than any other figure, he legitimized social democratic ideology in a climate where leftist sympathies were often considered subversive. During his terms as prime minister in the 1970s, Ecevit successfully undermined efforts to move Turkey toward membership in the European Union, then called the European Economic Community. The Democratic Socialist Party, which Ecevit heads, is a closely held family fiefdom. ``During his terms as prime minister in the '70s, Ecevit did not appear to be a consensus builder,'' said Ilter Turan, a professor of political science at Bilgi University in Istanbul.
