summary: 
 Still, it boggles the mind to accept the notion that hardship is driving profitable Big Oil to either merge, as British Petroleum and Amoco have already agreed to do, or at least to consider the prospect, as Exxon and Mobil are doing. Philip K. Verleger Jr., publisher of Petroleum Economics Monthly and a senior adviser to the Brattle Group, a Cambridge, Mass., consulting firm, spent some time late last week talking about Mobil, Exxon and the changing dynamics of the oil business. Let me say right off that I don't think this is a done deal. If there is a reason this merger might get extra attention, it will be because Exxon and Mobil have not been terribly friendly toward either the Clinton administration's or the European Union's positions on global warming. But I don't understand where Lucio Noto, Mobil's chief executive, fits into this. They were pushing the envelope, and when prices fell they had to cut back. Exxon has tried to build a very large presence systematically, without paying much attention to month-to-month or even year-to-year fluctuations in oil prices. They are brutally efficient. It is conceivable we could go into the next century with oil at $5 a barrel, depending on what happens to the world economy. That will strengthen the hands of the OPEC countries.

 anti-summary: 
  Times are tough in the oil patch. (italics)There is a lot of focus on the antitrust aspects of an Exxon-Mobil deal. (italics)Why are you skeptical about the deal? Well, Mobil has been trying to get bigger. (italics)Mobil is the country's second-biggest oil company, behind Exxon. From 1988 to 1996, Exxon's exploration and production expenditures rose 8 percent. But Mobil's expenditures were much more sensitive to price elasticities of oil than Exxon's. During that period, we are going to see a substantial reduction in investment in exploration and production, leading to a reduction in supply coming out of non-OPEC countries. (italics)The number of oil companies is going to shrink in coming years, regardless, isn't it? (italics)Do you think oil stocks are a good investment?

 textrank summary:
  Times are tough in the oil patch. Still, Big Oil and small oil are getting squeezed by low petroleum prices and the high capital costs of exploration. Well, Mobil has been trying to get bigger. (italics)Mobil is the country's second-biggest oil company, behind Exxon. But Mobil's expenditures were much more sensitive to price elasticities of oil than Exxon's. I think we are going to see low oil prices for six months to a year. (italics)The number of oil companies is going to shrink in coming years, regardless, isn't it? We are probably heading toward a world in which there are no more than five or six big oil companies, possibly eight. There is really no precedent for having as many big players as we have in the oil business in this modern society. (italics)Do you think oil stocks are a good investment?
