summary: 
 A possible merger was reported separately by both The Financial Times of London and Bloomberg News. Exxon, which has a market value of $176.7 billion, and Mobil, which has a market value of $61.1 billion, both have histories of being fiercely independent, and both have already cut back on staff and made themselves lean to survive even during a prolonged period of low oil prices. Consequently, chief executives of most oil companies have had to swallow their pride and look for suitable partners. This summer, British Petroleum announced an agreement to buy Amoco Corp. for $48.2 million, creating the world's third-largest oil company and prompting analysts to predict even more widespread consolidation. Like other oil companies, they had hoped to quickly tap into the vast reserves of Russia. Thus they have had to fall back on exploration areas of their own such as the deep waters in the Gulf of Mexico as well as West Africa and parts of Asia. On Wednesday, crude oil for January delivery fell 29 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $11.86 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, close to the 12-year low of $11.42 reached on June 15. Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and some other oil-producing nations, notably Mexico, have tried to stem the price drops with pledges to cut back on production. The main result of that agreement appears to have been to keep oil prices from falling below $10 a barrel. ``When you look at the BP-Amoco deal, you can rationalize it,'' the banker said.

 anti-summary: 
 He added, however, that any combination between Exxon and Mobil would not be an easy match because Mobil has been known for being a proud company that has said in the past that it would not want to merge. Such exploration is very expensive, and even when a big field is discovered, platforms costing $1 billion or more are required to bring the it into production. In the spring, OPEC agreed to reduce production by 2.6 million barrels a day, about 3 percent of the daily world supply of 74 million barrels. Some pointed to difficulties that the companies could face if they were combined. ``It is hard to say that there is anything in particular to gain. ``You really do wonder what is the benefit of all that redundancy. ``But none of those reasons apply to an Exxon-Mobil deal. ``With this combined company, there is no project that would be too big. '' Ms. Jaffe said the proposed deal would provide each company with assets in areas where it had little influence. ``There are a lot of complementary assets where they are not redundant,'' she said.

 textrank summary:
 If the companies were to merge, it would create the largest U.S. company in terms of revenue. 2 U.S. oil company, came as oil prices sank to their lowest in almost 12 years. A combined company would be bigger than Royal Dutch/Shell Group, the world's largest oil company by revenue. As oil prices have plummeted to levels last seen in the mid-1980s, oil companies have been under pressure to cut costs. But this has been a particularly unsettling year for the oil industry, and there is little prospect that crude oil prices will recover soon. This summer, British Petroleum announced an agreement to buy Amoco Corp. for $48.2 million, creating the world's third-largest oil company and prompting analysts to predict even more widespread consolidation. Exxon, he added, is a ``well-run company that likes to grow its own businesses. But those pledges have not always been honored, and rallies in the oil market this year have proven short-lived. ``This is a deal that makes sense,'' Ms. Jaffe said. '' Ms. Jaffe said the proposed deal would provide each company with assets in areas where it had little influence.
