summary: 
 A possible merger was reported separately by both The Financial Times of London and Bloomberg News. Both Exxon, which has a market value of $176.7 billion, and Mobil, which has a market value of $61.1 billion, have a history of being fiercely independence. This summer, British Petroleum announced a $48.2 billion agreement to buy Amoco Corp., creating the world's third-largest oil company and prompting analysts to predict even more widespread consolidation. Like other oil companies, they had hoped to quickly tap into the vast reserves of Russia. Thus they have had to fall back on their own exploration areas such as the deep waters in the Gulf of Mexico and West Africa. On Wednesday, crude oil for January delivery fell 29 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $11.86 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, close to the 12-year low of $11.42 reached on June 15. Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and some other oil-producing nations, notably Mexico, have tried to stem the price drops with pledges to cut back on production. An Exxon-Mobil deal would be certain to receive several months' worth of scrutiny by the commission, which would review how much of the industry such a merger would control. Analysts and investment bankers were split about the logic of the possible merger. '' In addition, Ms. Jaffe said, the merger would provide each company with new oil and gas assets in areas of the world where they had little influence.

 anti-summary: 
 He added, however, that a combination between Exxon and Mobil would not be an easy match because Mobil has been known for being a proud company that has said in the past that it would not want to merge. Such exploration is very expensive, and even when large fields are found it often takes platforms costing $1 billion to bring the oil into production. In the spring, OPEC agreed to reduce production by 2.6 million barrels a day, about 3 percent of the daily world supply of 74 million barrels. The Federal Trade Commission is still reviewing British Petroleum's pending purchase of Amoco. An Exxon-Mobil deal would be certain to receive several months' worth of scrutiny by the commission, which would review how much of the industry such a merger would control. Some pointed to difficulties that the companies could face if they were combined. ``It is hard to say that there is anything in particular to gain. ``You really do wonder what is the benefit of all that redundancy. ``But none of those reasons apply to an Exxon-Mobil deal. ``With this combined company, there is no project that would be too big.

 textrank summary:
 If the companies were to merge, it would create the largest U.S. company in terms of revenue. 2 U.S. oil company, come as oil prices have sunk to their lowest in almost 12 years. A combined company would be bigger than Royal Dutch/Shell Group, the world's largest oil company by revenue. But this has been a particularly unsettling year for the oil industry, and there is little prospect that crude oil prices will recover soon. This summer, British Petroleum announced a $48.2 billion agreement to buy Amoco Corp., creating the world's third-largest oil company and prompting analysts to predict even more widespread consolidation. Exxon, he added, is a ``well run company that likes to grow its own businesses. Like other oil companies, they had hoped to quickly tap into the vast reserves of Russia. Such exploration is very expensive, and even when large fields are found it often takes platforms costing $1 billion to bring the oil into production. But those pledges have not always been honored, and rallies in the oil market this year have proven short-lived. '' In addition, Ms. Jaffe said, the merger would provide each company with new oil and gas assets in areas of the world where they had little influence.
