summary: 
  Whether or not the talks between Exxon and Mobil lead to a merger or some other business combination, America's economic history is already being rewritten. In energy as in businesses like financial services, telecommunications and automobiles, global competition and technology have made unthinkable combinations practical, even necessary. Oil companies like Exxon Corp. and Mobil Corp. have an additional pressure, one unthinkable less than two decades ago. Exxon and Mobil are the two largest, strongest competitors to emerge from the nation's most famous antitrust case, the 1911 breakup of John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil Trust. They will also confront a British Petroleum PLC made far more potent in the United States by its agreement this summer to buy Amoco Corp. for $48.2 billion. ``The ultimate beneficiary of all this will be the consumer,'' said Daniel Yergin, the chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates. If Exxon and Mobil ultimately do combine, the costs could prove heaviest for energy industry employees. Earlier this month, the Energy Department predicted that the collapse of Asian demand would continue to depress oil prices for nearly a decade, and by as much as $5.50 a barrel in the year 2000. Two years ago, Mobil agreed to combine its European refining and marketing operations with British Petroleum's, resulting in annual savings of about $500 million. Though Royal Dutch/Shell's financial resources are greater than Exxon's, some analysts say Exxon still has the size and soundness to absorb a company of Mobil's size.

 anti-summary: 
 Now they face a Royal Dutch/Shell Group that is larger than either of them. Executives at both companies did not return calls Thursday for comment on the talks, and it was unclear Thursday night what the outcome might be. Mobil, with $58.4 billion in sales last year, might seem large enough to undertake anything. And Thursday, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries put off until March any decision on extending their oil production cutbacks to prop up prices. In the face of these partnerships, said Amy Jaffe, an energy analysts with the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy in Houston, ``if you're an Exxon, how do you compete? Under Noto, Mobil has been hunting for ways of becoming large and lean enough to survive. He took the lead in the deal with British Petroleum and has considered buying up smaller companies. And he has made it clear that corporate or personal pride would never block a deal. Chernow sees no reason why allowing an Exxon acquisition of Mobil to go through should suggest more leniency for Microsoft. ``Exxon would not be obviously larger than its leading competitors, the way Microsoft is,'' he said.

 textrank summary:
 Crude oil prices have fallen sharply, plunging 40 percent just this year to levels, adjusted for inflation, not seen since before the first oil embargo 25 years ago. Exxon, with Lee R. Raymond, and Mobil, with Lucio A. Noto, both have chief executives who have been preoccupied with the humbling accommodations that low oil prices have made necessary. As such, these giants are compelled to continue cutting costs and spreading the risks of their huge, expensive international projects that are needed to develop oil reserves needed for the next century. And Thursday, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries put off until March any decision on extending their oil production cutbacks to prop up prices. In response, many energy companies have already begun a new wave of cutbacks in their staffs and operations. In the face of these partnerships, said Amy Jaffe, an energy analysts with the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy in Houston, ``if you're an Exxon, how do you compete? '' Though Mobil and Exxon might have high concentrations of gas stations in certain areas of the United States, analysts say they have far more competition at the pump than before oil prices collapsed in the 1980s. As major oil companies team up, said John Hervey, an analyst with Donaldson Lufkin &AMP; Jenrette, ``If the price is right, egos will not get in the way. The company was also interested in Conoco Inc. when DuPont Co. began looking to divest itself of that oil and gas business. Producing oil in the states of the former Soviet Union has taken more time and money than many investors anticipated.
