summary: 
  Times are tough in the oil patch. Still, it boggles the mind to accept the notion that hardship is driving profitable Big Oil to either merge, as British Petroleum and Amoco have already agreed to do, or at least to consider the prospect, as Exxon and Mobil are doing. Philip Verleger Jr., publisher of Petroleum Economics Monthly and a senior adviser to the Brattle Group, a Cambridge, Mass., consulting firm, spent some time late last week talking about Mobil, Exxon and the changing dynamics of the oil business. Let me say right off that I don't think this is a done deal. If there is a reason this merger might get extra attention, it will be because Exxon and Mobil have not been terribly friendly toward either the Clinton administration's or the European Union's positions on global warming. But I don't understand where Lucio Noto, Mobil's chief executive, fits into this. They were pushing the envelope, and when prices fell they had to cut back. They are brutally efficient. It is conceivable we could go into the next century with oil at $5 a barrel, depending on what happens to the world economy. A. I think oil companies are still a worthwhile investment, but it is not a place where an investor should plan on making money over the next 9 to 12 months.

 anti-summary: 
  Times are tough in the oil patch. Philip Verleger Jr., publisher of Petroleum Economics Monthly and a senior adviser to the Brattle Group, a Cambridge, Mass., consulting firm, spent some time late last week talking about Mobil, Exxon and the changing dynamics of the oil business. There is a lot of focus on the antitrust aspects of an Exxon-Mobil deal. Q. Mobil is the country's second-biggest oil company, behind Exxon. But Mobil's expenditures were much more sensitive to the price elasticities of oil than Exxon's. Exxon has tried to build a very large presence systematically, without paying much attention to month-to-month or even year-to-year fluctuations in oil prices. Earlier this month the Energy Department said oil prices would stay soft for nearly a decade. I think we are going to see low oil prices for six months to a year. The number of oil companies is going to shrink in coming years, regardless, isn't it? Do you think oil stocks are a good investment?

 textrank summary:
  Times are tough in the oil patch. And with West Texas crude trading at around $12 a barrel, it seems a safe bet that oil won't be selling for $100 a barrel by the turn of the century _ something analysts were predicting during the oil price run-up of the early 1980s. Well, Mobil has been trying to get bigger. Q. Mobil is the country's second-biggest oil company, behind Exxon. But Mobil's expenditures were much more sensitive to the price elasticities of oil than Exxon's. Exxon has tried to build a very large presence systematically, without paying much attention to month-to-month or even year-to-year fluctuations in oil prices. I think we are going to see low oil prices for six months to a year. The number of oil companies is going to shrink in coming years, regardless, isn't it? There is really no precedent for having as many big players as we have in the oil business in this modern society. Do you think oil stocks are a good investment?
