summary: 
 ``I think it's a terrible thing,'' said Dick Mabry, a refinery operator, as he emerged in the plant's artificial twilight from the main gate after his 12-hour shift ended at 4:30 on Sunday morning. I think the Justice Department should step in and stop it. And that is why, beginning last Wednesday evening, the phone at the home of Jimmy Herrington, the president of the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers Local 4-243 rang without stop. No, he didn't know about that merger talk on television, said Herrington, who also works full-time producing lubricants. Antitrust regulators, they say, are bound to notice that Exxon has refineries an hour's drive in one direction and three hours in the other, along a Gulf of Mexico crescent that forms the petrochemical industry's home. With mounting overtime that can stretch a shift to 16 hours or more, workers regularly make $55,000 or $65,000 a year. But the plywood sheets covering the windows of most of the fast food places and gas stations around Herrington's union hall advertise that the best times are long gone. ``But if they fork out $60 billion? ''I don't believe creating new monopolies is the way to prop up the industry,'' said Robert Wages, a former refinery operator himself and now the union's president, by telephone Saturday. He was coming, early on Sunday morning, through a plant gate whose white canopy seems borrowed from a self-service station.

 anti-summary: 
 So when the 900 or so remaining blue-collar workers here at Mobil's largest domestic refinery, out of about 1,500 a decade ago, heard last week that their company was discussing a possible merger with Exxon, it was like a siren warning them that an already suspect valve might be about to blow. He stopped to rub eyes rimmed with red, but on this topic his bedtime could be delayed. Those here point to the tote board by the Beaumont plant's brick headquarters, that they say shows they have already handled 171 million barrels out of 130 million planned for the full year. He had asked some Mobil managers, in a meeting earlier this month, about all the rumors, but they said they had heard nothing. Lewis, in his 17th year, is a third-generation employee. They complain about the growing numbers of outside contractors taking over formerly unionized tasks. Some take the attitude that every company is always for sale. Union leaders, however, are already squawking. Many members, who typically came to work after high school, are already molding the oil companies' latest exploits into case studies fit for rapacious MBA's. ``Didn't the teachers teach us all through school that the Standard Oil Company would never come back?

 textrank summary:
 The latest evidence of where things were heading hulked right nearby, he said, glancing over at a new power plant likely to be operated by an outside company without the unions that now man the refinery's generators. But if the Mobil Corp. has to be sold, Lewis said, noting the gains in his company stock holdings, a buyer as solid and large as the Exxon Corp. might be the least of all evils. But the numbers that matter even more are the ones like 89.9, 88.9, even 81.9, on nearby gas stations _ the lowest prices, after inflation, since the Depression. Which is why Mobil and Exxon are considering combining into the world's largest oil company. One company's accountants could almost do the work for two. The workers streaming to and from the plant before dawn are mostly balding or going gray, a sign that for a full generation the refinery has been more concerned about how to get rid of workers than how to attract them. Some take the attitude that every company is always for sale. '' With most Mobil executives saying as little as possible for now, calls on Sunday to the local plant manager and a company spokesman did not elicit a peep. Union leaders, however, are already squawking. I still work for Mobil.
