summary: 
  For the second day in a row, astronauts boarded space shuttle Endeavour on Friday for liftoff on NASA's first space station construction flight. NASA has only five minutes or less each day to launch Endeavour in order to meet up with the first space station part, which was put in orbit two weeks ago by the Russians. By the time controllers traced the problem to a momentary drop in hydraulic pressure and decided to press ahead, it was too late _ they had missed the cutoff by a second or two. We do things by the book, and we're not going to cut any corners even if it means just shaving a second or two. Cabana held up his thumb and index finger a half-inch apart: ``We were that close. Endeavour's flight is already a year late because of a cash crunch in Russia, one of NASA's partners in building the international space station. The one-day delay cost NASA about $600,000, mostly in fuel and overtime pay. The astronauts will use the shuttle robot arm to capture the Russian space station piece and attach it to Unity. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and other dignitaries from around the world had gathered in the drizzle to see Endeavour and its crew off.

 anti-summary: 
 ``Let's go do this,'' said commander Robert Cabana. NASA has only five minutes or less each day to launch Endeavour in order to meet up with the first space station part, which was put in orbit two weeks ago by the Russians. The shuttle contains the second station component. By the time controllers traced the problem to a momentary drop in hydraulic pressure and decided to press ahead, it was too late _ they had missed the cutoff by a second or two. '' The problem was confined to one of Endeavour's three hydraulic pressure units. Endeavour's flight is already a year late because of a cash crunch in Russia, one of NASA's partners in building the international space station. The one-day delay cost NASA about $600,000, mostly in fuel and overtime pay. Rain and clouds moved in from the Atlantic 1{ hours before liftoff, but drifted away with minutes to spare. ``This is a good investment.

 textrank summary:
  For the second day in a row, astronauts boarded space shuttle Endeavour on Friday for liftoff on NASA's first space station construction flight. ``Let's go do this,'' said commander Robert Cabana. NASA has only five minutes or less each day to launch Endeavour in order to meet up with the first space station part, which was put in orbit two weeks ago by the Russians. The shuttle contains the second station component. The master alarm blared and red lights flashed just before the shuttle was to lift off early Thursday. ``Sure, it's frustrating,'' said Bill Readdy, shuttle program director and a veteran shuttle commander. We do things by the book, and we're not going to cut any corners even if it means just shaving a second or two. The astronauts will use the shuttle robot arm to capture the Russian space station piece and attach it to Unity. Rain and clouds moved in from the Atlantic 1{ hours before liftoff, but drifted away with minutes to spare.
