summary: 
  Following a series of intricate maneuvers and the skillful use of the space shuttle Endeavour's robot arm, astronauts on Sunday joined the first two of many segments that will form the international space station. Less than an hour after a rendezvous 240 miles above the Earth shortly before 6 p.m., Lt. Col. Nancy Currie of the Army deftly used the 50-foot arm to grab the 40,000-pound cylinder as the craft passed above Russia and to slowly pull it toward the shuttle. Currie took almost two hours to painstakingly move Zarya above the American-made Unity docking port positioned in Endeavour's cargo bay. The two station pieces, together measuring about 77 feet from end to end and having a combined mass of 70,000 pounds, are the first of 100 major components to be united in space over the next five years to form an orbiting outpost that would weigh almost a million pounds and span an area the size of two football fields. A pair of astronauts are to make three spacewalks this week, the first on Monday, during which they will hook up electrical and communications cables, remove covers, attach handrails and perform other tasks to get the modules to work as one unit. ``We've never done anything like this before,'' Currie said before the flight, adding that she had practiced the difficult maneuver more than 100 times over the last two years. Air Force space debris trackers noted that the shuttle was to pass within 1.6 miles of a spent stage of an American booster rocket launched last month.

 anti-summary: 
 Currie took almost two hours to painstakingly move Zarya above the American-made Unity docking port positioned in Endeavour's cargo bay. When the two pieces were aligned within inches of one another, Cabana fired small thruster rockets that raised the shuttle, allowing the modules to clamp together. Bringing the pieces together is only the first step in mating them. The most difficult part of Sunday's mating of the $240 million Zarya to the $300 million Unity was bringing them together after the shuttle caught up with the Russian unit. Unity, raised in Endeavour's cargo bay on Saturday, is so large that it blocked Currie's view of the mating fixtures from the shuttle's windows. She used views from remote cameras and a computerized vision system built on the arm to estimate the relative positions of the two large segments. The computerized system examined markings on both modules, computed their relationship to one another using the marks and displayed the results on a laptop computer.

 textrank summary:
  Following a series of intricate maneuvers and the skillful use of the space shuttle Endeavour's robot arm, astronauts on Sunday joined the first two of many segments that will form the international space station. The shuttle and its crew of six snared the Russian-made Zarya control module after chasing it around the Earth in ever-closing orbits throughout the day. Seeing Zarya up close, Col. Robert Cabana of the Marines, the shuttle commander, confirmed that two antennas had failed to deploy from the module following its launch from Kazakhstan on Nov. 20. The most difficult part of Sunday's mating of the $240 million Zarya to the $300 million Unity was bringing them together after the shuttle caught up with the Russian unit. Currie had to use the Canadian-built robot arm to place Zarya on top of Unity without being able to see where the pieces joined. The flight of Endeavour, which took off from Cape Canaveral, Fla., last Friday, had gone according to plan until early Sunday, when mission control ordered the shuttle to change its orbit slightly to avoid a piece of space debris. Air Force space debris trackers noted that the shuttle was to pass within 1.6 miles of a spent stage of an American booster rocket launched last month.
