summary: 
 And there is long-term anxiety, because even in this country where abortions are legal and publicly funded, women may find access diminishing. An American anti-abortion activist, James Kopp, is wanted for questioning about the shootings. ``You must realize Canada has the largest undefended border in the world,'' said Keith McCaskill, a police inspector in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and spokesman for the investigation. ``There's a great deal of sadness,'' said Susan Fox, director of a clinic in Edmonton, Alberta, that provides abortions. '' Marilyn Wilson, executive director of the Canadian Abortion Rights Action League, sees a long-term threat because fear of violence may intimidate young doctors from entering the field. ``But young doctors with families wouldn't necessarily want to do this. The society says long hours and limits on fees paid by the public health-care system are causing burnout and deterring medical school graduates as they choose a specialty. Women in Canada's big cities generally have adequate access to abortions. The government has been urged to make a public appeal to drug companies, but the health department says this can't be done. ``It would be a conflict of interest,'' said Bonnie Fox-McIntyre, a department spokeswoman.

 anti-summary: 
 There is immediate fear, because an anti-abortion gunman is believed to be at large. There is speculation the sniper's timing is linked to Remembrance Day because some anti-abortion activists use the day to commemorate aborted fetuses. Three times since 1994, a sniper has used this time of year to fire into the home of a Canadian doctor who performs abortion, each time wounding the target. ``I would suggest they be extremely aware of their day-to-day goings on, whether during their business day or after hours,'' said Toronto Detective Rick Stubbings. Across Canada, there have been reports of obstetrician-gynecologists modifying their practices or deciding to stop performing abortions. '' Marilyn Wilson, executive director of the Canadian Abortion Rights Action League, sees a long-term threat because fear of violence may intimidate young doctors from entering the field. ``There are almost no doctors who have stopped performing these procedures, even under the current reign of terror,'' she said. Another problem is that few Canadian medical schools offer training in abortion. Abortion-rights groups say the situation would improve if the RU-486 abortion pill were available in Canada. ``As a regulator we have to stay at arm's length, so we can judge an application impartially.

 textrank summary:
 Three times since 1994, a sniper has used this time of year to fire into the home of a Canadian doctor who performs abortion, each time wounding the target. Police say they don't know which side of the border he is on, fueling uneasiness at clinics and hospitals throughout Canada. ``I would suggest they be extremely aware of their day-to-day goings on, whether during their business day or after hours,'' said Toronto Detective Rick Stubbings. Abortion-rights groups say most doctors are not backing down. ``But there's also a feeling of determination that we won't be deterred or scared by these actions. '' Marilyn Wilson, executive director of the Canadian Abortion Rights Action League, sees a long-term threat because fear of violence may intimidate young doctors from entering the field. ``There are almost no doctors who have stopped performing these procedures, even under the current reign of terror,'' she said. '' The abortion debate is only one of several factors contributing to a shortage of obstetrician-gynecologists in Canada. Abortion-rights groups say the situation would improve if the RU-486 abortion pill were available in Canada. Dr. Henry Morgentaler, who led efforts to overturn the old abortion law and whose Toronto clinic was bombed in 1993, says he and his colleagues are sacrificing personal freedom as they reluctantly increase security measures.
