summary: 
 Slepian, an obstetrician and gynecologist by training and an abortion doctor by principle, rarely acknowledged the strain. Then he would do something unexpected, like invite an anti-abortion leader to breakfast or stop and chat with a familiar demonstrator outside the clinic. So when he was killed Oct. 23 by a sniper's bullet fired through the kitchen window of his home in the Buffalo, N.Y., suburbs, a furtive execution that fit a pattern of four earlier attacks on abortion providers in western New York state and Canada, friends and relatives wondered not so much that Slepian's work could arouse such murderous violence. Slepian often expressed exasperation over women who came to him for abortion after abortion. ``Bart had certain beliefs, strongly held,'' said Richard Schwarz, an old classmate who is an internist on Long Island. As he pushed his way through the crowd of chanting demonstrators, Schenck cupped his hands around his mouth and lunged, shouting, ``Slepian, you pig! She expressed rage to The Buffalo News shortly after the shooting. She said that whoever had killed her husband deserved the death penalty and that she would be happy to administer the lethal injection herself. He planned to take a cruise next spring. When his wife gave him a gray African parrot for a birthday gift, Slepian joked that the bird would probably outlive him so he would teach it his eulogy.

 anti-summary: 
 Then he would do something unexpected, like invite an anti-abortion leader to breakfast or stop and chat with a familiar demonstrator outside the clinic. ``He was an incredibly fatalistic person who thought that if your number's up, it's up, and there is nothing you can do about it,'' said H. Amanda Robb, the doctor's 32-year-old niece. He said that women had a right to comprehensive health care and since he was a women's doctor, he was going to provide it for them. Yet there is nothing in his life to suggest he was a crusader in either politics or medicine. Slepian's trajectory to that comfortable doctor's life had been unconventional. ``I said, `You don't have to do this,' '' recalled Schwarz, who was with him at the time. ``And he said, `I want to do it. He felt alive. '' Slepian's attempts to separate the abortion conflict from his private life were futile. '' Mrs. Slepian did not respond to requests for an interview.

 textrank summary:
 '' Slepian is the third doctor to be killed in the last five years in bombings and shootings that have killed 7 people and wounded 17 at abortion clinics around the nation. To members of the abortion rights movement, he was a martyr for their cause. ``Don't they get it? ``The other doctor said, `Just deal with it,''' Mrs. Durlak recalled. But by the late 1980s, he and other abortion doctors in Buffalo were under siege. In 1988, when demonstrators jeered at him from the sidewalk in front of his home as he opened Hanukkah presents with his children, the doctor came out brandishing a baseball bat. Slepian accepted that opponents of abortion acted out of moral conviction, his friends said, but resented the personal attacks. In response, he recalled, the doctor said, ``I'm fine spiritually. He bought a time-share apartment near Disney World in Florida. Typically, the doctor did not share any concerns he might have felt.
