summary: 
  Rosina Lotempio was standing outside abortion clinics here before Operation Rescue stormed into town in 1992 for the rowdy Spring of Life rallies, in which hundreds were arrested. She was on the sidewalk outside Buffalo GYN Womenservices the morning of Oct. 23, about 12 hours before Barnett Slepian, the clinic doctor, was fatally shot in his home. And she was there Friday, brown rosary beads in her hands, a small gold cross on a chain around her neck, quietly praying for abortions to stop. They call themselves street counselors and come to the clinic whenever they believe abortions are being performed. Similar bands of protesters march in front of abortion clinics throughout the United States, and local protesters are often joined by bands of people who roam the country. At the clinic on Main Street, north of downtown Buffalo, there is an odd sense of community. They sometimes see the ``enemy'' _ abortion-rights volunteers who escort patients in and out of the clinic _ in the supermarket or on the soccer field. And after Slepian's death and the retirement this week of another doctor, there are only two doctors in the area for whom abortions form a significant part of their practices. But their perch outside the clinic means they witness far more of what they believe are murders than what they call rescues. She began protesting in 1990, after attending an abortion protest march in Albany. 

 anti-summary: 
  Rosina Lotempio was standing outside abortion clinics here before Operation Rescue stormed into town in 1992 for the rowdy Spring of Life rallies, in which hundreds were arrested. She was there before Lambs of Christ demonstrators came to town in 1993. ``It's very difficult out here; I depend on God,'' she said, after praying for several moments to decide whether to talk to a reporter. Mrs. Lotempio, a mother of three and grandmother of six, connects her involvement to a conversation in the 1970s in which she helped a friend decide to abort an unwanted pregnancy. And several said they cried when they heard of Slepian's death. Glenn Murray, a lawyer for Womenservices clinic, said: ``When people from out of town show up, that is when we feel the most danger. It is a heavily Catholic city where thousands of protesters from around the country demonstrated for two weeks in 1992. After eight years, Mrs. Lotempio can count eight women who changed their minds and did not get abortions while she was at the clinic. The rules protect people from physical harassment, but because of the distance, they turn what could be quiet conversations into catcalls and taunts. Some days we're immune to it, but other days it's just too much.

 textrank summary:
 ``I thought that if I was at the clinic doing something, I could make up for that baby's life. She returns on Saturdays, when up to 40 people crowd the sidewalk. Most of the protesters, including Mrs. Lotempio, were among the thousands of people arrested here in 1992, the height of anti-abortion activity in Buffalo. We know most of the local people by name. Those rallies, as well as earlier protests and continuing sidewalk vigils, have had an impact, people on both sides of the abortion issue say. Inside the clinic, the protests just make a hard job harder, many clinic workers say. Federal law bars protesters from coming within 15 feet of the clinic entrances, and from leaning signs against its walls. Some push the limits, frustrating clinic workers and guards. '' Linda Palm, 51, marching at the clinic on Friday, said she identified with the clinic patients. She began protesting in 1990, after attending an abortion protest march in Albany. 
