summary: 
 '' But Mary Quinn, a local organizer for the Lambs of Christ who also offers her home to protesters, sees matters in a differing light. Weslin stayed at Mrs. Hayes' home only once, beginning in May 1996 when he first came to speak at local churches about the anti-abortion movement. Weslin and the other house guests of Mrs. Hayes and Mrs. Quinn come recommended from friends and members of local Catholic churches, they said, adding that most are speakers at local churches or anti-abortion events. And although they say they would never take into their homes a stranger wanted by the FBI, like Kopp, they concede that they sometimes know little about their guests. '' Barbara Fredericks, another local abortion opponent who developed ties to the Lambs after Weslin came to town, added that the priest epitomized a man of God. E. Kenny, 20, said that his parents housed Kopp in their St. Albans, Vt., home for two years after he spoke at their local church in 1988. Many local Catholics associated with the Lambs of Christ have tried to distance themselves from the killing of Slepian. When Weslin first arrived two years ago, he brought new focus to a group that often had done little more than counsel pregnant women and set up booths on college campuses, they said. '' She also began to house unwed mothers and went to stand vigil outside local clinics where abortions were performed. ``Two pounds and two inches ago, she could have been a partial-birth abortion,'' Mrs. Hayes said, referring to a controversial late-term abortion procedure.

 anti-summary: 
 He was later convicted and served two and a half months in prison. They describe the activity as peaceful resistance meant to stop what they see as murders. ``He was always in a good mood,'' Kenny said. ``And then there was this horrible tragedy of this doctor's death becoming the face of the movement. Some say they believe that the killer might have been someone overcome by grief after a personal experience with abortion. ``But you don't know everyone who shows up and you don't turn to the person next to you and tell them they don't belong there. '' Mrs. Fredericks said that anyone who would shoot a doctor who provides abortions was someone ``who had snapped, perhaps because of the importance of the situation. She described what could have been her baby's fate, had she been someone else's child. ``They have the hardest time getting the shoulders out, so they can get to the head and puncture it. There's no question that these doctors are trying to murder a child.

 textrank summary:
 That man, James Charles Kopp, has participated in abortion protests for more than a decade, and often was a house guest of other members of the Lambs of Christ. Weslin and the other house guests of Mrs. Hayes and Mrs. Quinn come recommended from friends and members of local Catholic churches, they said, adding that most are speakers at local churches or anti-abortion events. But Mrs. Hayes and Mrs. Quinn say they know a lot about Weslin. '' Barbara Fredericks, another local abortion opponent who developed ties to the Lambs after Weslin came to town, added that the priest epitomized a man of God. E. Kenny, 20, said that his parents housed Kopp in their St. Albans, Vt., home for two years after he spoke at their local church in 1988. '' Both Kopp and Weslin have been arrested repeatedly during abortion protests. '' And they spent time in the same jail in Atlanta in 1988 after a clinic protest. Mrs. Hayes says she doesn't know the truth. '' Members of the Lambs of Christ and other opponents of abortion in Rochester wonder whether the killing of Slepian will hinder their efforts. ``Two pounds and two inches ago, she could have been a partial-birth abortion,'' Mrs. Hayes said, referring to a controversial late-term abortion procedure.
