summary: 
  Making their first collective decision about monetary policy, the 11 European nations launching a common currency on Jan. 1 cut interest rates Thursday in a surprise move that won market confidence. Ten of the 11 countries joining European economic union dropped their key interest rate to 3 percent, with Portugal making the most significant plunge, from 3.75 percent. It is expected to drop to the common rate by the time the euro is launched. However, interest rate levels had become a contentious political issue with center-left governments in Germany and France pushing for rate cuts to help spur growth and combat unemployment, stuck at 10.9 percent in the nations adopting the euro. ``The coordinated rate cut could lead to a reduction in the current pessimism and a reduction in financial market turbulence,'' Tietmeyer said. ' But confidence has taken quite a hit across Europe recently, and I think further action from the ECB will be needed next year, maybe down to 2.5 percent,'' James Mitchell, senior London-based strategist with Nomura. ``We are clearly headed for a slowdown,'' she said. Until recently, Europe's economies had held out relatively well against damage from Asia and Russia's economic crises and unstable financial markets.

 anti-summary: 
  Making their first collective decision about monetary policy, the 11 European nations launching a common currency on Jan. 1 cut interest rates Thursday in a surprise move that won market confidence. Ten of the 11 countries joining European economic union dropped their key interest rate to 3 percent, with Portugal making the most significant plunge, from 3.75 percent. The exception was Italy, which cut from 4 to 3.5 percent. Unifying the interest rate is a critical step in laying the groundwork for monetary union, and analysts generally expected rates to settle at around the level of Germany's, 3.3 percent before the cut, now 3 percent. ``What had been feared was that, in order to prove its independence, the ECB would go against its own analysis and would wait longer, which would have been nonsensical,'' Zalm said. ``The coordinated rate cut could lead to a reduction in the current pessimism and a reduction in financial market turbulence,'' Tietmeyer said. ``The reaction is, `Oh good, they're doing a little bit to prop up the euro economy. The rate cuts may help.

 textrank summary:
 Ten of the 11 countries joining European economic union dropped their key interest rate to 3 percent, with Portugal making the most significant plunge, from 3.75 percent. The exception was Italy, which cut from 4 to 3.5 percent. It is expected to drop to the common rate by the time the euro is launched. However, interest rate levels had become a contentious political issue with center-left governments in Germany and France pushing for rate cuts to help spur growth and combat unemployment, stuck at 10.9 percent in the nations adopting the euro. Hans Tietmeyer, who runs the German Bundesbank on which the ECB is modeled, hinted the rate cut was designed to boost confidence in the new currency, dampened by global economic crises and Europe's worsening outlook. ``The coordinated rate cut could lead to a reduction in the current pessimism and a reduction in financial market turbulence,'' Tietmeyer said. The rate cuts may help. The 11 countries launching the euro are Austria, Belgium, Ireland, Italy, Finland, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Spain and Portugal. 
