summary: 
  A delegation of Chilean legislators lobbying against the possible extradition of Augusto Pinochet to Spain to face trial, warned Thursday that Chile was on the brink of political turmoil. The delegation is an offshoot of a larger group of Chilean parliamentarians currently protesting the detention in London on behalf of the opposition parties Independent Democratic Union and the National Renovation Party. Aznar has promised his government will rubber stamp a formal extradition request to the British government if asked to do so by the judicial authorities. But the extradition attempt could be annulled by legal challenges in Spain well before the deadline for presenting it in Britain. The court's plenary is expected to meet next week to decide on an earlier challenge of the Spanish judicial investigations into human rights abuses in Chile and Argentina that underpin Garzon's arrest warrant. The decision is likely to hang on how genocide and terrorism are interpreted, as these crimes are specifically mentioned in the Spanish legal code. 

 anti-summary: 
  A delegation of Chilean legislators lobbying against the possible extradition of Augusto Pinochet to Spain to face trial, warned Thursday that Chile was on the brink of political turmoil. Pinochet was arrested in London on Oct. 16 at the instigation of Spanish magistrate Baltasar Garzon who is seeking to extradite the former dictator on charges of genocide, terrorism and torture. Spain was the biggest single investor in Chile last year, followed closely by Britain. On Thursday the head prosecutor from the National Court set in motion appeals against several rulings made by Judge Garzon related to Pinochet's detention in the London clinic where he was recovering from back surgery. The court's plenary is expected to meet next week to decide on an earlier challenge of the Spanish judicial investigations into human rights abuses in Chile and Argentina that underpin Garzon's arrest warrant. The decision is likely to hang on how genocide and terrorism are interpreted, as these crimes are specifically mentioned in the Spanish legal code. 

 textrank summary:
  A delegation of Chilean legislators lobbying against the possible extradition of Augusto Pinochet to Spain to face trial, warned Thursday that Chile was on the brink of political turmoil. In Chile, the detention triggered both celebrations by relatives of victims of Pinochet's 1973-1990 regime and protests from the retired general's supporters. Espina, Movoa and Lagos were hoping to talk to officials from the Spanish Foreign Ministry and other government representatives. Aznar has promised his government will rubber stamp a formal extradition request to the British government if asked to do so by the judicial authorities. But the extradition attempt could be annulled by legal challenges in Spain well before the deadline for presenting it in Britain. A ruling that the investigations are outside the jurisdiction of Spanish law would made any extradition request difficult.
