summary: 
 Pinochet, who has vowed to fight attempts to extradite him to Spain on allegations of murder, genocide and torture, had drinks with Lady Thatcher and her husband, Denis, in their home in London's elite Belgravia district four days before he was hospitalized for back surgery performed Oct. 9. In Conservative government days, Pinochet was welcomed on regular visits that included tea with the prime minister. Pinochet and Lady Thatcher also implemented similar brands of right-wing economics. He arrived last month on a diplomatic passport and is also a senator-for-life in Chile, which protects him from prosecution there. ``We are not protecting the dictator of the '70s,'' Artaza said in a British Broadcasting Corp. radio interview Tuesday. A Chilean specialist in international law was traveling to London for further meetings with British officials, Artaza said.

 anti-summary: 
  Margaret Thatcher entertained former Children dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet at her home two weeks before he was arrested in his bed in a London hospital, the ex-prime minister's office said Tuesday, amid growing diplomatic and domestic controversy over the move. In Conservative government days, Pinochet was welcomed on regular visits that included tea with the prime minister. The current visit is Pincohet's first since Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labor Party administration was elected 18 months ago, ending 18 years of Conservative Party rule. Pinochet's 17-year-rule was marked by torture and other human rights abuses against political opponents in which, the Chilean government has said, 4,299 people were killed or vanished. The magistrate broadened his charges Monday to include killings of Chileans as well as Spaniards, and genocide _ for which there is no diplomatic immunity. ``What we are fighting for and discussing with the (British) government is the special situation of a senator in our transition who many people do not understand and many people don't like.

 textrank summary:
 Pinochet's 17-year-rule was marked by torture and other human rights abuses against political opponents in which, the Chilean government has said, 4,299 people were killed or vanished. He remained Chilean army commander-in-chief until March. The magistrate broadened his charges Monday to include killings of Chileans as well as Spaniards, and genocide _ for which there is no diplomatic immunity. ``What we are fighting for and discussing with the (British) government is the special situation of a senator in our transition who many people do not understand and many people don't like. '' ``We're not discussing his record during his period of dictatorship, that the present government does not support at all,'' added the ambassador. British Conservative Party lawmakers accuse the Labor government of ``gesture'' politics and pandering to the party's left-wing. 
