summary: 
  There's room for a few more names on a 20th century honor roll of writers, and one will be added this week when the Swedish Academy announces the latest Nobel Literature laureate. ``The joke you hear is that it goes to people you never heard of,'' said Ian Jack, editor of London-based Granta literary magazine. His favorites include Trinidad-born V.S. Outrageously not,'' he said in a telephone interview from New York. ``They include all kinds of fifth-raters. '' A review of recent winners may foreshadow this year's laureate. Seven of the past 10 were men _ does that favor a woman? Two of the past three were poets _ does that favor a prose writer? The latter is known for her portrayals of the struggles of Chinese women. Spain's Nobel hopes are pinned on Francisco Ayala, 92, winner of this year's renowned Prince of Asturias prize, said Jose Maria Martinez Cachero, an author, university professor and secretary of the jury that selected Ayala.

 anti-summary: 
 Naipaul, though he's convinced Naipaul probably won't win because of his ``dark ... pessimistic'' and often scathing portrayals of post-colonial African culture. Who is considered seriously, even who's nominated, isn't disclosed. A writer's nationality, by the terms of the prize founder Alfred Nobel's will, is supposed to be irrelevant. Two can share the prize, though the last time that happened was 1974. ... James Joyce never got one, for heaven's sake. '' Bloom's U.S. favorites include Cormac McCarthy, author of ``Blood Meridian''; Philip Roth, author of ``American Pastoral''; and John Ashbery, ``the best living poet. Two of the past three were poets _ does that favor a prose writer? In comparison, only three Asian writers have ever won. ``Bei Dao is a personal favorite of mine,'' said Abe Harumasa, editor-in-chief of the Japanese literary magazine Bungei. ``The choice could be interpreted as being motivated partly by politics,'' given the poet's association with China's democracy movement, ``but it's clear he's a wonderful poet.

 textrank summary:
 This year's winner _ or, possibly, winners _ will be announced Thursday, the Academy disclosed Tuesday. But the Nobel, awarded most every year since 1901, also shines a light, usually deservedly, on wonderful writers few people have read, he added. The academy keeps its deliberations secret. Who is considered seriously, even who's nominated, isn't disclosed. A writer's nationality, by the terms of the prize founder Alfred Nobel's will, is supposed to be irrelevant. Outrageously not,'' he said in a telephone interview from New York. ``They include all kinds of fifth-raters. ... James Joyce never got one, for heaven's sake. Other presumed Latin candidates are Peru-born Mario Vargas Llosa, a member of the 200-year-old Royal Spanish Language Academy, Martinez Cachero said, and Portugal's Jose Saramago, whose works have been translated into more than 20 languages. ``Let's not get into that,'' he said.
