summary: 
 Saramago, 75, and Portuguese said they were pleased the Swedish Academy had finally acknowledged the literary contribution of Portugal, a small country of 10 million people bordering Spain on Europe's southwestern Iberian Peninsula. Saramago, a soft-spoken man known for his hard-edged and iconoclastic views, said he shared the honor with his country and he hoped winning the prize would make Portugal and its language ``more visible and audible. '' ``I'm personally very happy for myself. A gaunt man with wisps of white hair, Saramago was born in Azinhaga, a small town near Lisbon. He first won critical acclaim abroad with his 1982 historical fantasy ``Memorial do Convento,'' published in English in 1988 as ``Baltasar and Blimunda. '' It is set during the Catholic-inspired inquisition and explores the war between individuals and organized religion, picking up Saramago's recurring theme of the loner struggling against authority. He is most frequently compared with Colombian writer Gabriel Garcia Marquez because his prose is often rooted in recognizable settings but at the same time tinged with magical elements. ``We're rational beings but we don't behave rationally. '' In the 1989 ``The History of the Siege of Lisbon,'' a Lisbon proofreader mischievously inserts the word ``not'' into a text on the 12th century capture of the Portuguese capital from the Moors, thereby fictionally altering the course of European history with a stroke of his pen. In his 1986 book, ``The Stone Raft,'' the Iberian Peninsula snaps off from the rest of the European continent and floats off into the North Atlantic _ apparently in a metaphorical search for identity away from the standardizing nature of the European Union, of which Portugal and Spain are enthusiastic members.

 anti-summary: 
  Jose Saramago became the first writer in Portuguese to win the Nobel Prize for Literature on Thursday. ``It has taken all of this century to win a Nobel Prize for the Portuguese language,'' Saramago said at the Frankfurt Book Fair, speaking through an interpreter. Saramago's controversial opinions and atheistic outlook have frequently clashed with the establishment and the general public. ``I have not come to bring peace but the sword,'' said Saramago, an atheist, at the time. Since the 1980s, he has been one of Portugal's best-selling contemporary writers and his works have been translated into more than 20 languages. The Nobel citation praised his work that ``with parables sustained by imagination, compassion and irony continually enables us to apprehend an elusory reality. ``Blindness,'' his most recent book to be translated into English, is an unsettling allegory about the social meltdown as an inexplicable blindness sweeps through society. ``This blindness isn't a real blindness, it's a blindness of rationality,'' he said. Such historical and literary mischief are Saramago trademarks. Saramago will receive the dlrs 978,000 prize on Dec. 10 in Stockholm. 

 textrank summary:
  Jose Saramago became the first writer in Portuguese to win the Nobel Prize for Literature on Thursday. Saramago, 75, and Portuguese said they were pleased the Swedish Academy had finally acknowledged the literary contribution of Portugal, a small country of 10 million people bordering Spain on Europe's southwestern Iberian Peninsula. ``It has taken all of this century to win a Nobel Prize for the Portuguese language,'' Saramago said at the Frankfurt Book Fair, speaking through an interpreter. Saramago, a soft-spoken man known for his hard-edged and iconoclastic views, said he shared the honor with his country and he hoped winning the prize would make Portugal and its language ``more visible and audible. '' Prime Minister Antonio Guterres said the award was ``above all a prize for Portugal and the Portuguese language'' which is spoken by 180 million worldwide, mostly in Brazil, but also in Portugal's five former colonies in Africa. ``I have not come to bring peace but the sword,'' said Saramago, an atheist, at the time. ``This blindness isn't a real blindness, it's a blindness of rationality,'' he said. If we did, there'd be no starvation in the world. Such historical and literary mischief are Saramago trademarks. Saramago will receive the dlrs 978,000 prize on Dec. 10 in Stockholm. 
