summary: 
 A tall, balding man whose large, tinted glasses often give him a mien of severity, Saramago is the first Portuguese-language writer _ and one of the first card-carrying Communists _ to become a Nobel Literature laureate. '' His latest book available in English, ``Blindness,'' in which all but one of his characters mysteriously become blind, was described as his ``symphonic new novel'' by Andrew Miller in The New York Times Book Review on Sunday. ``I am personally very happy for myself,'' he said. ``I am also happy for my country. Saramago, whose body of work includes poetry, essays, plays and a journal as well as 10 novels, is unusual for having emerged as a major literary figure only at the age of 60. While he has not been well known in the United States, his novels have always been critically well received there. Later, he found work at a Lisbon publishing company, but the oppressive and censorial atmosphere of the Salazar dictatorship discouraged him from writing. It was only after Portugal's April 1974 revolution that Saramago felt free to find his voice. In the late 1970s, he also turned to novels, publishing three in succession in 1977, 1978 and 1980. ``The History of the Siege of Lisbon,'' published in the United States last year, is a whimsical tale set in motion by the decision of a humble proofreader at a publishing house to insert the word ``not'' into a key passage in a standard history of Portugal.

 anti-summary: 
 Many of his novels are set against a backdrop of political or historical events, but it is his unwavering concern for individual fate that gives his fiction its distinctive voice and independent character. The writer's role is to protect it and work with it. ``As a member of our party,'' he noted solemnly, ``Saramago makes a great contribution to our ideals and to the struggle for social change. A member of the Portuguese Communist Party since 1969, he served as editor of a Lisbon newspaper, Diario de Noticias, during an 18-month period when the left looked likely to seize power in Portugal. ``This is a rich, multifaceted and polysemous text that at the same time has a historical, a social and an individual perspective,'' the Swedish Academy noted Thursday. To the delight of Britons, Gibraltar is left behind. Unsurprisingly, the bitter satire, ``The Gospel According to Jesus Christ,'' proved controversial, with God shown as using the innocently human Jesus to create a religion that has spawned violence and intolerance. When a Lisbon jury picked the book as Portugal's entry for a 1992 European literary prize, the country's conservative government vetoed the choice as blasphemous. It was then that Saramago decided to leave his small, crowded apartment in Lisbon for the relative solitude of Lanzarote. Saramago will receive his Nobel Prize, worth the equivalent of $967,500 this year, at a ceremony in Stockholm on Dec. 10. 

 textrank summary:
 '' His latest book available in English, ``Blindness,'' in which all but one of his characters mysteriously become blind, was described as his ``symphonic new novel'' by Andrew Miller in The New York Times Book Review on Sunday. The writer's role is to protect it and work with it. ``As a member of our party,'' he noted solemnly, ``Saramago makes a great contribution to our ideals and to the struggle for social change. His novels have since been translated into 30 languages, selling particularly well in Portugal, Brazil, Spain, Italy and Germany. While he has not been well known in the United States, his novels have always been critically well received there. For all his late blooming, though, Saramago long dreamed of becoming a writer. Yet he managed to publish a small novel at the age of 25. In the late 1970s, he also turned to novels, publishing three in succession in 1977, 1978 and 1980. When the novel was published in the United States in 1987, Irving Howe acclaimed it as ``brilliant'' in The New York Times Book Review. Writing in The New York Times, Herbert Mitgang called it ``a rare, old-fashioned novel _ at once lyrical, symbolic and meditative.
