summary: 
 The prize, for physiology or medicine, went to Dr. Robert Furchgott, 82, of the State University of New York in Brooklyn; Dr. Louis Ignarro, 57, of the University of California at Los Angeles, and Dr. Ferid Murad, 62, of the University of Texas Medical School in Houston. But scientists now know it is distributed widely in the body. Dr. Gerald Levey, the dean of UCLA, said ``we actually anticipated this day for about four years now. '' The three 1998 winners never worked together, ``but we talked a lot of shop talk at meetings,'' Furchgott said. The gas can also induce a type of programmed cell death known as apoptosis. Scientists are studying nitric oxide's effects on the immune system to stop the growth of cancers. In 1995, in the Annual Review of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Furchgott wrote that on May 5, 1978, in the first of a series of planned experiments on arteries from a rabbit, a technician did not follow directions correctly. The technician performed one step of the experiment before instead of after he was supposed to wash out a drug used in an earlier phase of the experiment. Gilman said in an interview that he believed Rall, now retired and living in Charlottesville, Va., was the first scientist to have trained two Nobel Prize winners. It took years to develop the more refined techniques that led to the understanding of nitric oxide's many roles in the body.

 anti-summary: 
 Those include widening blood vessels, helping to regulate blood pressure, initiating erections, battling infections, preventing formation of blood clots and acting as a signal molecule in the nervous system. Nitric oxide, a chemical relative of the anesthetic gas nitrous oxide, is better known as a common air pollutant formed when nitrogen burns, such as in automobile exhaust fumes. The award committee said that ``this was the first discovery that a gas can act as a signal molecule in the organism. '' The discovery was startling because ``nitric oxide is totally different from any other known signal molecule and so unstable that it is converted to nitrate and nitrite within 10 seconds. Murad said he had ``pondered the odds and thought that maybe I could win the prize, if not now maybe in a couple of years. Sinai Hospital in Manhattan, said that ``the discovery of nitric oxide and its function is one of the most important in the history of cardiovascular medicine. But regulating the amount of nitric oxygen inhaled is critical because too much can be lethal. As a result, blood pressure drops. Furchgott concluded that blood vessels widen because the endothelial cells produce a signal molecule that he called EDRF, for endothelium-derived relaxing factor, which relaxes smooth muscle cells in blood vessels. In 1995, in the Annual Review of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Furchgott wrote that on May 5, 1978, in the first of a series of planned experiments on arteries from a rabbit, a technician did not follow directions correctly.

 textrank summary:
 Sinai Hospital in Manhattan, said that ``the discovery of nitric oxide and its function is one of the most important in the history of cardiovascular medicine. '' Doctors have learned from the prize-winning research that in heart disease, the endothelium, or inner lining of arteries, makes less nitric oxide. Now, drug companies are trying to develop more powerful heart drugs based on newer knowledge of nitric oxide's role as a signal molecule. Researchers have also learned that nitric oxide produced in the endothelium rapidly spreads through cell membranes to the underlying muscle cells in arteries. As a result, blood pressure drops. Scientists are trying to develop drugs that can block production of nitric oxide in such infections. Doctors are measuring the production of nitric oxide in the lungs and intestines to diagnose a number of ailments, including asthma and colitis, and are studying its role in menstruation. Nitric oxide is also being studied for its role in smell and memory. Murad was cited for work conducted over the years while he worked at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, Stanford University in Palo Alto, Calif., and Abbott Laboratories in Illinois. It took years to develop the more refined techniques that led to the understanding of nitric oxide's many roles in the body.
