summary: 
 '' But D'Amato is something else as well: a candidate in what may be the tightest Senate race in the nation. All of which suggests that after the House voted Thursday to authorize an impeachment inquiry, this year's 34 races for the U.S. Senate have become, beyond what they already were, the electoral equivalent of jury selection. If the House votes to impeach Clinton, the matter goes to the Senate, which must decide by a two-thirds majority whether to convict him and, thus, remove him from office. The danger for Senate candidates is that with impeachment now a real possibility, the debate may move beyond the president's behavior _ about which there is little disagreement _ to the more problematic issue of whether he should be removed from office. Jennifer Duffy, who follows Senate races for the Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter, said that so far, at least, none of the Senate candidates has made an explicit appeal for votes based on how they would vote on a presidential jury. But now some analysts wonder if the partisan fight in Congress last week might have the opposite effect among some Democrats. ``That's the problem,'' said Stuart Rothenberg, the editor of an independent political newsletter in Washington. The problem is that we don't know where the electorate stands on impeachment. In contests like those, it might well prove to be in the interest of a Democratic candidate to, as one consultant put it, sit down in front of a camera and tape an advertisement in which the candidate denounces the president's behavior but solemnly pledges to vote against impeachment. Strategists in both parties believe that kind of approach could prove effective.

 anti-summary: 
 The danger for Senate candidates is that with impeachment now a real possibility, the debate may move beyond the president's behavior _ about which there is little disagreement _ to the more problematic issue of whether he should be removed from office. Advisers to candidates of both parties said in interviews last week that they were perplexed and worried, unsure what they can or should do on the issue to gain the advantage _ or guard against harm. Republicans would have to win 28 of the 34 races to produce the 67 votes necessary for conviction, assuming such a vote were to go along party lines. Only an electoral catastrophe for the Democrats, which seems almost unthinkable, could produce such a huge loss. ``It's not that we don't know, and that the politicians don't know, where the general public stands on impeachment. ``This is an issue where there is a huge disconnect between the elites and the public,'' said Fred Yang, a Democratic consultant with clients in Wisconsin and the Carolinas. By contrast, Democrats in South Carolina, Georgia and Nevada would be less likely to oppose Clinton's impeachment. ``The White House might think from the overall public numbers that maybe they would like to make this a referendum election,'' said Ed Goeas, a Republican pollster who is working in Senate races this year. And Schumer plans to campaign in New York on Monday with Clinton at his side. '' Asked if Schumer would raise the issue in a television commercial, Morris responded: ``We don't talk about what we're going to do.

 textrank summary:
 Instead, they repeatedly asked him how he would vote on an impeachment of President Clinton. '' But D'Amato is something else as well: a candidate in what may be the tightest Senate race in the nation. All of which suggests that after the House voted Thursday to authorize an impeachment inquiry, this year's 34 races for the U.S. Senate have become, beyond what they already were, the electoral equivalent of jury selection. But impeachment is another matter; most polls show the nation is against it. For most of the strategists involved in the races, there is little guidance on how to handle the impeachment issue. '' And asking voters to think ahead to an impeachment proceeding as they cast their ballots in a Senate race is, in the words of Stuart Stevens, a Republican consultant, ``a double bank-shot. Against that complicated backdrop, the prevailing thinking is that the use of the impeachment issue will vary from race to race, state to state and week to week, depending on the circumstances of the candidates and the composition of the electorate. ``When and if that matter comes to the Senate, I will decide on the facts that are presented to me at that time,'' D'Amato said. '' But Schumer, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, which is conducting the impeachment investigation, virtually embraced the issue. Schumer's media adviser, Hank Morris, seemed to suggest last week that impeachment will grow as an issue.
