summary: 
 After thanking the gathered donors for the ``very kind personal things'' they had said to him, the president declared, ``If I had to do it all over again, every day, I would do it in a heartbeat, to see America where it is today as compared to six years ago. '' As the applause died away, Clinton continued, ``I want you to understand, too, that we all have to live with the consequences of our mistakes in life. '' Clinton's motorcade route was lined downtown with hundreds of people, some of them carrying supportive or condemnatory signs. '' As he rode into Cleveland, Clinton passed a billboard for a local radio station, WNCX. ``They tell me, `Oh, we're going to do very well, Mr. President, in these mid-terms because we have so much more money than you do,''' and because Democrats who turned out to re-elect Clinton would not return to the polls in an off-year. But he often goes further than that, saying that his predicament could actually help the Democrats. But, he said, ``adversity is our friend,'' because it can overcome apathy and ``focus us on what is at issue here. '' What should be at issue, Clinton said, are his achievements and agenda and the Republicans' record, which he described harshly. ``They killed the minimum wage increase for 12 million Americans. They killed campaign finance reform.

 anti-summary: 
 He did so Friday at a series of fund-raisers. After thanking the gathered donors for the ``very kind personal things'' they had said to him, the president declared, ``If I had to do it all over again, every day, I would do it in a heartbeat, to see America where it is today as compared to six years ago. But nobody gets out of life for free. '' To the music of a saxophone and a hammered dulcimer, Clinton raised about $200,000 over lunch in a private home in Cleveland for the Democratic Senate candidate in Ohio, Mary Boyle. Then he flew to Philadelphia to raise half a million dollars for the Democratic Party. By midsummer, the president's aides were delighted to have persuaded him to condense his fund-raising remarks to just 10 minutes of policy points and partisan jabbing. But as his troubles have grown and the mid-term elections have approached, his free-form remarks have become longer. Instead, in his remarks, Clinton spoke with pride of his record and with urgency about addressing the international economic crisis and the needs of struggling farmers and schoolchildren. ``They tell me, `Oh, we're going to do very well, Mr. President, in these mid-terms because we have so much more money than you do,''' and because Democrats who turned out to re-elect Clinton would not return to the polls in an off-year. ``The people that were good enough to serve you here at this event today, they've got a lot of hassles in their life,'' he said.

 textrank summary:
 After thanking the gathered donors for the ``very kind personal things'' they had said to him, the president declared, ``If I had to do it all over again, every day, I would do it in a heartbeat, to see America where it is today as compared to six years ago. But nobody gets out of life for free. Then he flew to Philadelphia to raise half a million dollars for the Democratic Party. By midsummer, the president's aides were delighted to have persuaded him to condense his fund-raising remarks to just 10 minutes of policy points and partisan jabbing. ``Mr. President, these are your friends here today,'' said Tony George, the host of the Cleveland event, offering the refrain of those who have played a similar role. At a rally for the president outside city hall here Friday night a group of Teamsters chanted, ``two more years. ``Lovin', touchin', squeezin','' it read, the words superimposed on a cartoon of the president with his arm over Ms. Lewinsky's shoulders, the Washington Monument beside them. The president left it to his aides on Friday to respond directly to the latest gusher of grand jury disclosures in Washington. Lower-income Democratic voters, he said, might not bother to vote in a typical election. ``The people that were good enough to serve you here at this event today, they've got a lot of hassles in their life,'' he said.
