summary: 
 '' Dr. Rymer has won acclaim as the director of a prominent stroke-treatment center, but this proposition seemed particularly grand. Well, Dr. Rymer would have to pay her own way if the committee should actually meet, and as an honorary committee chairman, she discovered, she would be a member of a committee composed entirely of honorary chairmen. With the approach of the midterm elections next month, it turns out that the National Republican Congressional Committee, which supports candidates for the House, has been sponsoring similar calls to tens of thousands of small-business owners, including doctors. But campaign finance watchdogs say the solicitations mark a new departure in political fund raising, one they call akin to the practices of marketing companies like the Publishers' Clearing House that hook consumers with visions of million-dollar windfalls to induce them to subscribe to magazines. They are made by people with headsets and computers at the home of InfoCision Management Corp., a telemarketing firm and Congressional committee client in Akron, Ohio. '' Besides telemarketing for businesses, said Jamie Blair, a supervisor at the center, ``we specialize in helping the Republican Party and conservative political groups. '' However far they are from Gingrich, the telemarketers are instructed to answer return calls with: ``Republican Congressional Committee, Newt Gingrich's office. ``He is right now aggressively pushing legislation to cut taxes by as much as half, and he's also interested in legislation to cut capital gains to a single rate of 15 percent. And as someone who I'm sure would also benefit from this, could I tell the speaker he could count on your help? Vice President Al Gore is under a Justice Department investigation for fund-raising calls he allegedly made from his office in the 1996 presidential campaign.

 anti-summary: 
 Too good to be true? '' But it doesn't appear illegal, he said, adding, ``It's a fund-raising gimmick to get attention. ``It's part of bringing them into the process. They say they envisioned a senior aide at a telephone in the speaker's chambers under the Capitol Dome. It's a great way that he can get your input and thoughts on legislation that does concern you. ``Now that would be used on the nationwide media campaign that Newt has undertaken to target those seats we really need. ``Is this congressman Gingrich's office that I'm talking to? Harris said the calls are ``in no way related to the speaker's OFFICIAL office. '' He added: ``What is more important is not where the calls get routed. People are more interested in an award with the speaker's good name on it than whether the call gets routed to Washington or Ohio.

 textrank summary:
 Well, Dr. Rymer would have to pay her own way if the committee should actually meet, and as an honorary committee chairman, she discovered, she would be a member of a committee composed entirely of honorary chairmen. With this and other fund-raising programs, the committee says it has amassed $62 million for the elections. ``The national leadership award is a part of what we call donor and member fulfillment,'' Harris said. They say they envisioned a senior aide at a telephone in the speaker's chambers under the Capitol Dome. ``We were asked to contact you on behalf of the speaker,'' says a woman who picked up the call and identified herself as Nancy. '' To assure passage of the legislation, the speaker wants to increase his Republican majority, she says, adding, ``To help us do that, the speaker is pulling together a group of individuals such as yourself and is inviting you to be an honorary chairman on his advisory council. '' Later, Nancy says: ``As a member of his committee, you would be receiving from the speaker our national leadership award, which is really quite an honor. ``Is this congressman Gingrich's office that I'm talking to? Harris said the calls are ``in no way related to the speaker's OFFICIAL office. People are more interested in an award with the speaker's good name on it than whether the call gets routed to Washington or Ohio.
