summary: 
  The last time George Voinovich ran for office, he won re-election as Ohio's governor with 72 percent of the vote, stunning even his most optimistic supporters and setting a 20th-century record for victory margins in Ohio politics. This year, Voinovich, a Republican who is barred from seeking a third term, is running again, this time for the Senate seat held by John Glenn, a Democrat who is retiring. And while there are few who expect Voinovich to repeat his electoral benchmark of four years ago, politicians of both parties generally acknowledge that he is well positioned to increase the Republican majority in the Senate. '' Her role in the campaign, she said, ``is to remind the people of the state of Ohio that George Voinovich made a promise and that he didn't deliver on it. '' Specifically, she discusses a decision last year by the Ohio Supreme Court that cited wide disparities in the quality of the state's schools and ruled unconstitutional the formula for funding them. Ms. Boyle, who is running her first statewide race and has widespread union support, has raised nearly $2 million so far, far less than the nearly $7 million Voinovich has taken in. The northern half of the state, with its history of industrial, unionized cities, has a tradition of voting largely for Democratic candidates, while the southern tier of the state is considered more conservative and typically leans Republican. Indeed, as a boy, Voinovich once delivered newspapers to the Boyle home in the working-class Collinwood section of Cleveland. And Voinovich, a former mayor of Cleveland, has developed a reputation as a moderate Republican who works well with Democrats. I'm the only person in the United States who has been president of the National League of Cities and chairman of the National Governors Association.

 anti-summary: 
 That has not prevented Voinovich's Democratic opponent, Mary Boyle, from undertaking a vigorous campaign. ``But after seven and a half years he has failed the students of this state. '' Her role in the campaign, she said, ``is to remind the people of the state of Ohio that George Voinovich made a promise and that he didn't deliver on it. '' Specifically, she discusses a decision last year by the Ohio Supreme Court that cited wide disparities in the quality of the state's schools and ruled unconstitutional the formula for funding them. Under that plan, half the additional funds would have been used for school improvement with the remainder earmarked for reducing property taxes. Despite some narrowing in the opinion polls, she is still trailing Voinovich by 10 percentage points in some polls and as much as 18 points in others. There is also a sharp fund-raising disparity. ``If I get into the Senate, I will probably know more about domestic policy than any member of the Senate,'' he said in an interview on Wednesday in Canton, sandwiched between a ribbon-cutting ceremony and a fund-raising reception at a vacuum cleaner museum. ``I'm probably the only Republican in the United States who has been endorsed by the Ohio Education Association and National Education Association,'' he said, adding that Ms. Boyle was a member of the state Legislature during the period cited in the Supreme Court ruling. ``They did nothing to fix the buildings, they did nothing for technology and the urban school districts.

 textrank summary:
 Ms. Boyle, a former commissioner in Cuyahoga County, which encompasses Cleveland, is crisscrossing the nation's seventh-most populous state in what she describes as a grass-roots campaign that, while operating on a comparative shoestring, has nonetheless attracted to her side nationally known Democrats _ President Clinton foremost among them _ on the campaign trail. ``He promised to be the education governor,'' said Ms. Boyle. ``But after seven and a half years he has failed the students of this state. '' Her role in the campaign, she said, ``is to remind the people of the state of Ohio that George Voinovich made a promise and that he didn't deliver on it. Also, Voinovich, a former lieutenant governor, has been on statewide ballots five times over the last 20 years and thus is the better-known candidate. And Voinovich, a former mayor of Cleveland, has developed a reputation as a moderate Republican who works well with Democrats. ``I'm probably the only Republican in the United States who has been endorsed by the Ohio Education Association and National Education Association,'' he said, adding that Ms. Boyle was a member of the state Legislature during the period cited in the Supreme Court ruling. '' Ms. Boyle, who has not yet begun to run campaign commercials on television, said her status as the underdog had ``allowed me to be more focused, more intense. '' Pausing after a campaign fund-raising breakfast with former Democratic Sen. Bill Bradley of New Jersey here on Wednesday, Ms. Boyle said: ``This has been a marathon and it's been pretty much uphill. But now, we're down to the last three miles.
