summary: 
 '' The efforts of Price and Mrs. Carson to contain the Lewinsky debacle _ and their opponents' attempts to capitalize on it _ offer important clues suggesting how Clinton's problems are influencing the conduct of races around the country. Many Democrats are straddling a line that seems to shift a bit with every new scandal-related disclosure: they do not want to appear close to a president whose conduct embarrasses them, and yet, sensing the possibility of a public backlash against Republicans, they are weighing their words carefully and are wary of hopping on any impeachment bandwagon. And while publicly these Democrats express confidence that the scandal will have little impact on them, their campaigns are preparing for the worst by placing greater emphasis than ever on behind-the-efforts to prod their core constituencies to vote. ) Making strategy for the stump is further complicated by anecdotal evidence that runs counter to Democratic fears and Republican hopes. '' Hofmeister tried his best to make the Republicans' case. ``There has to be rule of law,'' he said. Mrs. Carson said she hoped that Democrats and swing voters alike would become so fed up with the Lewinsky inquiry that the issue might even help her. '' The Carson campaign is counting on voters like Timothy Daly, a 38-year-old real estate executive who voted for a Republican two years ago but now favors Mrs. Carson. Rather than engage Roberg over the Clinton scandal, Price has begun broadcasting a television commercial that emphasizes his central issue: education. The congressman's advisers say they intentionally produced an advertisement that appears decidedly nonpolitical _ it features school children in a play _ in an effort to break through the television clutter about the scandal.

 anti-summary: 
  In other election years, Reps. David Price and Julia Carson would have had little in common other than that they were Democrats with relatively safe seats. Other Democratic incumbents who Republican officials cite as locked in contests that are more competitive than expected include Reps. Corrine Brown of Florida, Vic Snyder of Arkansas, Lois Capps and Ellen Tauscher of California, Martin Frost of Texas, Melvin Watt of North Carolina, John LaFalce of New York and Sander Levin of Michigan. There would be a danger if we went overboard. What if there was a sudden schedule change? Both paused, squirmed a bit and mustered answers that were hardly affirmative. When a reporter asked about it, many voters said that as appalled as they were at Clinton's behavior, they had a hard time relating it to their decision on which way to vote in the congressional elections in five weeks. ``I was one of 63 members of Congress who voted against putting all that filth on the Internet,'' she said, adding that Starr's inquiry had been ``a cruel hoax in terms of fiscal responsibility and accountability. But the Price campaign also has a weapon it is holding in reserve, in the event Roberg appears to be riding the Clinton scandal to advantage: the incumbent's advisers say they would not be timid about running commercials underscoring that he earned a divinity degree before getting his doctorate in political science. At a coffee with voters in a wealthy enclave of Raleigh the other night, Roberg opened his remarks by asserting that Clinton had ``lost the moral authority to lead. '' Yet none of those assembled asked him about the scandal; they were more concerned about the state's plans to build a highway near their neighborhood. 

 textrank summary:
 Price is a centrist who has represented this high-tech district in North Carolina for all but 2 of the last 12 years, a political scientist who has taught at Duke and Yale. ``This is not the time to be silent, Price. '' Asked why he was not much raising the scandal directly, Hofmeister said: ``Don't murder somebody when they're in the process of committing suicide. Both paused, squirmed a bit and mustered answers that were hardly affirmative. In three days of campaign stops here in North Carolina and in Indianapolis, the scandal was rarely raised by any voter being courted by the candidates of either party. When a reporter asked about it, many voters said that as appalled as they were at Clinton's behavior, they had a hard time relating it to their decision on which way to vote in the congressional elections in five weeks. Mrs. Carson said she hoped that Democrats and swing voters alike would become so fed up with the Lewinsky inquiry that the issue might even help her. ``I'm pulling the Democratic ticket because I'm tired of it: the right side of the Republican Party is playing politics,'' Daly said. '' Back here in the 4th District, Price has some reasons to be worried. But the Price campaign also has a weapon it is holding in reserve, in the event Roberg appears to be riding the Clinton scandal to advantage: the incumbent's advisers say they would not be timid about running commercials underscoring that he earned a divinity degree before getting his doctorate in political science.
