summary: 
 They said they would probably make an endorsement by Friday. An endorsement by the group, which is held in high regard by many gay and lesbian voters, could prove important in swinging voters to D'Amato in a tight race. The intensity of the debate surrounding the endorsement underscores the importance of the New York Senate race to Democrats across the nation, who see defeating D'Amato as one of their best opportunities to prevent the Republicans from gaining 60 seats in the Senate _ enough to stop a Democratic filibuster. Although the Human Rights Campaign is bipartisan, it has been very close to the Clinton administration, has many Democrats on its board and receives much of its money from Democratic contributors. Although the organization has been thought to be inching toward a D'Amato endorsement for months, the lobbying campaign for Schumer has picked up intensity in the last two weeks, driven partly by a growing sense that the race is now closer than ever. Schumer met privately with the group's top officials last week to make one last pitch for the endorsement. ``Chuck Schumer has been a strong supporter of issues that are important to gay communities,'' said a senior White House official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. In a precedent widely cited by D'Amato supporters, the organization endorsed Sen. John F. Kerry, a Democrat, over the Republican challenger, William Weld, in the 1996 Massachusetts Senate race, even though Weld's record on gay rights was considered stronger. ``I don't think anybody will vote for Al D'Amato because of an HRC endorsement,'' said a White House aide who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ``But I think some people in the Right to Life Party and some upstate people are going to say, `Who is this guy and why should we vote for him?

 anti-summary: 
  White House officials and gay Democrats, concerned that the nation's largest gay and lesbian political organization is about to endorse Sen. Alfonse D'Amato for re-election, are intensely lobbying the group to try to shift its support to the Democratic challenger, Rep. Charles Schumer. Publicly, officials in the organization, the Human Rights Campaign, said they were still deliberating their position in the closely watched race, considered among the tightest in the nation. The Republicans currently hold a 55-to-45 majority. ``There is sentiment in the community that if the Republicans get 60 votes, that Trent Lott will basically be in charge politically for the next two years,'' said David Mixner, a close friend of President Clinton's who is gay. He was referring to the Senate majority leader, who has called homosexuality a sin and likened it to kleptomania. White House officials said they did not know whether the three had made such appeals, and Human Rights Campaign officials declined to comment. '' The Human Rights Campaign is considered the most influential gay and lesbian organization in Washington, with a national membership of 250,000 and an annual budget of more than $13 million. Since 1993, the senator has backed the right of gay citizens to serve in the military, sponsored legislation to prevent job discrimination against gay workers and opposed his own leadership's attempts to block the nominations of two openly gay men to positions in the Clinton administration. That is the case in New York, where Schumer's rating by the Human Rights Campaign has been consistently better than D'Amato's. Matt Foreman, executive director of the Empire State Pride Agenda, cited D'Amato's role as ``the architect'' of the state Republican Party as a major reason the group endorsed Schumer.

 textrank summary:
  White House officials and gay Democrats, concerned that the nation's largest gay and lesbian political organization is about to endorse Sen. Alfonse D'Amato for re-election, are intensely lobbying the group to try to shift its support to the Democratic challenger, Rep. Charles Schumer. But privately, organization officials and gay activists from both parties who have been monitoring the debate say the group is most likely to endorse D'Amato, a Republican seeking his fourth term. Saturday, Schumer picked up his own endorsement from New York's largest gay and lesbian political organization, the Empire State Pride Agenda. Democrats and advocates in both parties who support rights for gay people said that Vice President Al Gore, Hillary Rodham Clinton and Secretary for Health and Human Services Donna Shalala have made personal appeals to Human Rights Campaign officials urging them not to endorse D'Amato. Some New York advocates of civil rights for gay people have flooded the organization with phone calls, e-mail messages and letters. Since 1993, the senator has backed the right of gay citizens to serve in the military, sponsored legislation to prevent job discrimination against gay workers and opposed his own leadership's attempts to block the nominations of two openly gay men to positions in the Clinton administration. Both men, however, have angered advocates of rights for gay people by voting for legislation that allows states to not recognize gay marriages. In a precedent widely cited by D'Amato supporters, the organization endorsed Sen. John F. Kerry, a Democrat, over the Republican challenger, William Weld, in the 1996 Massachusetts Senate race, even though Weld's record on gay rights was considered stronger. The move angered gay Republicans, who now contend that snubbing D'Amato would prove that the group is biased toward Democrats. For that reason, some White House officials say they think a Human Rights Campaign endorsement of D'Amato will be almost meaningless among gay voters.
