summary: 
 It's the most serious case of alleged ethical misconduct investigated by the IOC since former U.S. member Robert Helmick was accused of conflict of interest in 1991. ``We're not going to make any conclusions or any speculations as to what we may decide until we know what the facts are,'' he said. John Krimsky, deputy secretary general of the U.S. Olympic Committee, discounted any possibility of the games being moved. Salt Lake lost the '98 race to Nagano, Japan, in 1991, when the program was begun. ``I've already stated I do not regard what was done as a bribe,'' Joklik said Friday. ``I recognize there have been perceptions contrary to that. '' Joklik was chairman of the bid committee at the time, the No. 2 official behind Welch. He currently serves as a SLOC consultant. The elder Essomba, a prominent surgeon, was the secretary general of the National Olympic Committees of Africa. 

 anti-summary: 
 Earlier, Joklik met with IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch and other top officials to provide information and documents on the case. Senior IOC executive board member Marc Hodler said the scholarship fund _ described as ``humanitarian aid'' by Salt Lake officials _ amounted to a bribe to sway votes in the 1995 election. It's the most serious case of alleged ethical misconduct investigated by the IOC since former U.S. member Robert Helmick was accused of conflict of interest in 1991. This is the first time the IOC has ever investigated possible bribery by bidding cities, despite previous rumors and allegations of corruption in other Olympic votes. ``We're not going to make any conclusions or any speculations as to what we may decide until we know what the facts are,'' he said. Moving the games would be unprecedented and, with just over three years to go, would be a logistical nightmare. '' Salt Lake organizers have denied that the bid committee's dlrs 500,000 project was an effort to buy key IOC members' support in the four years between votes on the 1998 and 2002 Winter Games. Olympic rules prohibit bidding cities from giving IOC members or their relatives any presents or benefits exceeding a value of dlrs 150. '' Joklik was chairman of the bid committee at the time, the No. ``The facts were in the early 1990s when the bid committee was operating.

 textrank summary:
 Frank Joklik, president of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee, and SLOC senior vice president Dave Johnson appeared before the IOC panel for 90 minutes Friday night. Senior IOC executive board member Marc Hodler said the scholarship fund _ described as ``humanitarian aid'' by Salt Lake officials _ amounted to a bribe to sway votes in the 1995 election. Helmick eventually resigned both as an IOC member and as president of the U.S. Olympic Committee. ``The executive board takes this matter very seriously,'' said Dick Pound, the IOC vice president heading the Salt Lake inquiry. '' Also on the investigative panel are IOC vice president Keba Mbaye, executive board members Jacques Rogge and Thomas Bach, and IOC director general Francois Carrard. Pound said the panel would investigate allegations that ``there may or may not have been payments for the benefit of members of the IOC or their families connected with the Salt Lake City bid. Most of the facilities needed for the games in Salt Lake already are built. '' Joklik was chairman of the bid committee at the time, the No. Welch resigned last year as president of the organizing committee after being accused of domestic violence against his wife. ``The facts were in the early 1990s when the bid committee was operating.
