summary: 
 Marc Hodler, a senior member of the International Olympic Committee executive board, alleged malpractices in the voting for the 1996 Atlanta Games, 2000 Sydney Olympics and 2002 Salt Lake Games. IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch immediately disassociated himself from Hodler's allegations. ``All the other comments are personal comments. It also came as the former minister in charge of Sydney's 2000 Olympic bid revealed he was asked to offer bribes in exchange for votes. Bruce Baird, the former New South Wales minister, said he refused. Asked whether Atlanta's victory in the vote for the 1996 games was clean, Hodler said, ``Certainly not. ' Asked whether Sydney's election was clean, he said, ``I would be surprised. ``Yesterday the lawyer of Salt Lake City said, `Everything had been done by Tom Welch, who is not there any more. ' My experience is that this is not true. The current SLOC president, Frank Joklik, was chairman of the bid committee at the time.

 anti-summary: 
 He declined to identify them. ``The four agents try to make a living out of this,'' he said. ``I missed a chance to be a rich man. ' ``The price wold be between dlrs 500,000 and dlrs 1 million for a number of votes, a bloc. ``Sydney pretends it is completely clean, clean, clean. '' Hodler contested the argument by the current Salt Lake organizing committee that it was not directly involved in the controversial scholarship program and that the onus was on former bid chief Thomas Welch. We know nothing. '' The controversy centers on scholarships _ including tuition assistance and athlete training programs _ paid to relatives of IOC members by the Salt Lake bid committee. The current SLOC president, Frank Joklik, was chairman of the bid committee at the time. SLOC vice president Dave Johnson was also a high official on the bid committee. 

 textrank summary:
 Marc Hodler, a senior member of the International Olympic Committee executive board, alleged malpractices in the voting for the 1996 Atlanta Games, 2000 Sydney Olympics and 2002 Salt Lake Games. ' ``The price wold be between dlrs 500,000 and dlrs 1 million for a number of votes, a bloc. '' Hodler added that the agents then charge the city winning the bid ``something like dlrs 3 million to dlrs 5 millon. '' Hodler's allegations, made to a group of reporters, came as the IOC continued investigations into alleged financial misconduct by the Salt Lake City group which won the bid for the 2002 games. It also came as the former minister in charge of Sydney's 2000 Olympic bid revealed he was asked to offer bribes in exchange for votes. Bruce Baird, the former New South Wales minister, said he refused. '' Hodler contested the argument by the current Salt Lake organizing committee that it was not directly involved in the controversial scholarship program and that the onus was on former bid chief Thomas Welch. ``Yesterday the lawyer of Salt Lake City said, `Everything had been done by Tom Welch, who is not there any more. The current SLOC president, Frank Joklik, was chairman of the bid committee at the time. SLOC vice president Dave Johnson was also a high official on the bid committee. 
