summary: 
 Samaranch compared the current climate to the Soviet boycott of the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles and the sprinter Ben Johnson's expulsion from the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. Samaranch agreed Sunday that the time had come to explore change. Hodler, the former head of the International Ski Federation, also claimed that the Fiat tycoon Gianni Agnelli had given free vans to influence votes for the Italian resort of Sestriere to hold the 1997 world skiing championships. The issue of vote-buying came to the fore in Lausanne because of the recent disclosure of scholarship payments made to six relatives of IOC members by Salt Lake City officials during their successful bid to play host to the 2002 Winter Games. The Salt Lake Organizing Committee has said the payments, which amounted to slightly less than $400,000, came from a privately financed fund that was started in 1991. He said, ``If necessary we will expel members if this ad hoc commission thinks these members are guilty. '' Pound said his commission was already ``satisfied Salt Lake City won the 2002 Games on the merit of the bid. '' He also said that his commission would expand its inquiry beyond the Salt Lake City bid only if it was presented with evidence and not simply rumors of corruption in other bids. '' Hodler, when pressed for further comment this afternoon at Olympic headquarters, initially covered his mouth with both hands and then said, ``Muzzle imposed by the president. '' But the 78-year-old Samaranch said he had ``great respect'' for Hodler and no intention of asking for his resignation or pushing for his expulsion. 

 anti-summary: 
 Samaranch compared the current climate to the Soviet boycott of the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles and the sprinter Ben Johnson's expulsion from the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. members' votes for payments from bidding cities. He has called for a new electoral process, in which the executive board or some other select IOC group would decide which cities become Olympic hosts instead of the full IOC membership. And Intermountain Health Care, Utah's largest health care provider, confirmed Sunday that it gave free surgical services to at least two people associated with the IOC in 1994. On Saturday, Hodler had suggested the bidding teams from Atlanta and Nagano, Japan, that won the 1996 Summer Olympics and 1998 Winter Olympics had not run ``clean'' campaigns. Billy Payne, who presided over Atlanta's bid, and Makoto Kobayashi, the general secretary of the Nagano organizing committee, denied those claims. '' Pound said there had been concern in the IOC for some time about agents. ``There always have been lobbyists,'' he said. '' Hodler, 80, is one of only four IOC members with life membership because he was appointed before age limits were imposed in 1966. Asked if he might resign he said, ``I'm not going to resign, but I might be expelled.

 textrank summary:
 Samaranch compared the current climate to the Soviet boycott of the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles and the sprinter Ben Johnson's expulsion from the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. '' Samaranch expressed surprise at allegations made by the IOC executive board member Marc Hodler of Switzerland that agents were offering to sell I.O.C. members' votes for payments from bidding cities. Hodler, the second most senior member of the IOC, said Saturday that he knew of four agents, including one IOC member, who engaged in such activities. Hodler said he believed that 5 to 7 percent of the IOC membership, which currently numbers 115, asked for some sort of compensation for their vote. Fiat denied the claims on Saturday, but Sunday Howard Peterson, a former senior American delegate to the ski federation, said he had been offered cars by two Fiat executives. On Saturday, Hodler had suggested the bidding teams from Atlanta and Nagano, Japan, that won the 1996 Summer Olympics and 1998 Winter Olympics had not run ``clean'' campaigns. Billy Payne, who presided over Atlanta's bid, and Makoto Kobayashi, the general secretary of the Nagano organizing committee, denied those claims. '' Pound said there had been concern in the IOC for some time about agents. '' Hodler, 80, is one of only four IOC members with life membership because he was appointed before age limits were imposed in 1966.
