summary: 
 For the second time this week, Jerry Ross and James Newman floated out the hatch of the shuttle Endeavour to work on the seven-story, 35-ton station taking shape in the open cargo bay. 1 priority was to attach two 100-pound antennas to Unity, the American-made side of the space station. The plan called for the men to lug two suitcase-size antennas about halfway up Unity and install them on opposite sides of the 36-foot cylinder. Once activated, the antennas will provide a direct, virtually uninterrupted communication link between Unity and NASA's Mission Control. Other spacewalking chores for Ross and Newman on Wednesday evening included erecting a sunshade over a computer mounted to the outside of Unity. This was the sixth spacewalk for Ross during his 18-year NASA career, the most by an American, and the third for Newman. 

 anti-summary: 
  Two astronauts ventured back out on another spacewalk Wednesday to attach antennas to the international space station under construction nearly 250 miles above Earth. 1 priority was to attach two 100-pound antennas to Unity, the American-made side of the space station. Otherwise, U.S. flight controllers would have to rely on the sporadic coverage provided by Russian ground stations. The antenna was rolled up on a spool, and engineers worried the 3-foot strip might pop open with enough force to hurt him if he got too close. Newman had a 10-foot grappling hook for the job. The antenna is one of two that failed to open properly following Zarya's Nov. 20 launch from Kazakstan.

 textrank summary:
 Their other job, time permitting, was trickier: trying to open a stuck antenna on Zarya, the Russian-built control module. Mission Control decided just before the spacewalk to let Newman take a crack at unjamming the Zarya antenna. The antenna was rolled up on a spool, and engineers worried the 3-foot strip might pop open with enough force to hurt him if he got too close. The antenna is one of two that failed to open properly following Zarya's Nov. 20 launch from Kazakstan. One more spacewalk is planned for Endeavour's 12-day mission: On Saturday, Ross and Newman will conduct a photo survey and take out a sack of tools that will be used by future station visitors. This was the sixth spacewalk for Ross during his 18-year NASA career, the most by an American, and the third for Newman. 
