summary: 
  The first piece of the international space station was orbiting Earth Friday, sprouting antennae and unfolding solar power panels as it awaited other segments, which will eventually grow into the largest orbital laboratory in history. The module, called Zarya from the Russian term meaning sunrise or dawn, took a flawless ride into space atop a three-stage Russian Proton booster rocket that lifted off at 1:40 a.m. Eastern time from the Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. '' But because of all the partner nations trusting each other and working together, he said, ``the international space station is going to be a reality. Because of the collapse of the Russian economy, doubts that Russia can produce enough rockets and other equipment to support both projects led Russia to promise that it would abandon Mir and destroy the station by next summer. According to a report by the news agency Reuters, President Boris Yeltsin's space adviser, Yevgeny Shaposhnikov, said Friday he was preparing a number of proposals on extending Mir's life past the year 2000.

 anti-summary: 
 Daniel Goldin, the administrator of NASA, said at a news conference following the launching, ``Now we only have 44 launches to go, about 1,000 hours of space walks and countless problems. '' Even as the new space station is coming together, questions continue about the fate of Russia's existing space laboratory, the 12-year-old Mir. According to a report by the news agency Reuters, President Boris Yeltsin's space adviser, Yevgeny Shaposhnikov, said Friday he was preparing a number of proposals on extending Mir's life past the year 2000. '' Yuri Koptev, head of the Russian Space Agency, said the launching of Zarya, a 42,000-pound space tugboat that will supply power and propulsion in the early stages of station construction, was a needed vindication for the troubled Russian space program. ``The Russian space industry is alive and well and is perfectly able to fulfill all of its commitments on the international space station,'' Koptev said. 

 textrank summary:
 This is to be followed by 43 more flights by American and Russian rockets carrying more than 100 parts to be assembled in space to form a 900,000-pound research station housing up to seven astronauts. '' But because of all the partner nations trusting each other and working together, he said, ``the international space station is going to be a reality. '' Even as the new space station is coming together, questions continue about the fate of Russia's existing space laboratory, the 12-year-old Mir. '' Yuri Koptev, head of the Russian Space Agency, said the launching of Zarya, a 42,000-pound space tugboat that will supply power and propulsion in the early stages of station construction, was a needed vindication for the troubled Russian space program. ``The Russian space industry is alive and well and is perfectly able to fulfill all of its commitments on the international space station,'' Koptev said. 
