summary: 
  In its first case to deal with atrocities against Serbs during Bosnia's civil war, a U.N. war crimes tribunal on Monday convicted three prison officials and guards, but acquitted a top military commander who oversaw the facility. Prosecutor Grant Niemann of Australia said he would appeal Delalic's acquittal. ``Let me thank you for a just and fair judgment,'' Delalic told the court. Mucic, wearing dark sunglasses and a cross, smiled as he heard his sentence of seven years in prison. Tribunal Deputy Prosecutor Graham Blewitt of Australia said he was considering appealing Mucic's ``inadequate'' sentence. During the trial _ the tribunal's longest to date involving 122 witnesses _ survivors described the campaign of terror unleashed against Serbs in the area. Inmates at the Celebici prison camp were beaten to death by guards wielding baseball bats, wooden planks and rifle butts, according to testimony. Yet a few witnesses also praised Delalic and Mucic, for humanitarian gestures, such as getting food and clothing to some prisoners and releasing others. He was sentenced to 20 years by Karibi-Whyte, who denounced rape as ``a despicable act which strikes at the very core of human dignity and physical integrity. His attorneys also are likely to appeal the conviction.

 anti-summary: 
  In its first case to deal with atrocities against Serbs during Bosnia's civil war, a U.N. war crimes tribunal on Monday convicted three prison officials and guards, but acquitted a top military commander who oversaw the facility. Mucic, wearing dark sunglasses and a cross, smiled as he heard his sentence of seven years in prison. ``Mr. Mucic was clearly derelict in his duty and allowed those under his authority to commit the most heinous of offenses, without taking any disciplinary action,'' said presiding Judge Adolphus Karibi-Whyte of Nigeria. Monday's verdicts ended a marathon 20-month trial that focused on the brutal mistreatment of the Bosnian Serbs, themselves blamed for the vast majority of war crimes committed during the 3 1/2-year Bosnian conflict. Others were set on fire, raped and forced to commit sexual acts with members of their own family. One prisoner was beaten to death and had a Muslim party badge nailed to his head, a witness claimed. He was sentenced to 20 years by Karibi-Whyte, who denounced rape as ``a despicable act which strikes at the very core of human dignity and physical integrity. A charge against Delic and Mucic of plundering property was dismissed by the three-judge panel. Mucic also was cleared of responsibility for four murders and three cases of mistreatment or torture of prisoners. Landzo was cleared of one murder charge and one torture count.

 textrank summary:
 The Yugoslav war crimes tribunal cleared Cmndr. Prosecutor Grant Niemann of Australia said he would appeal Delalic's acquittal. ``The judgment has even increased my trust in this institution. Monday's verdicts ended a marathon 20-month trial that focused on the brutal mistreatment of the Bosnian Serbs, themselves blamed for the vast majority of war crimes committed during the 3 1/2-year Bosnian conflict. Others were set on fire, raped and forced to commit sexual acts with members of their own family. A charge against Delic and Mucic of plundering property was dismissed by the three-judge panel. Mucic also was cleared of responsibility for four murders and three cases of mistreatment or torture of prisoners. Delic was cleared of two murders, and of command responsibility for other killings at Celebici. Landzo was cleared of one murder charge and one torture count. The tribunal, set up by the Security Council in 1993, has convicted only one other person following a trial _ Bosnian Serb Dusan Tadic, who was sentenced in May 1997 to 20 years for killing and torturing Muslims in 1992.
