summary: 
  Some of the closest combat in the half year of the Kosovo conflict, to the point of fighting room to room and floor to floor, occurred near this village six weeks ago, in the days before 21 women, children and elderly members of the Delijaj clan were massacred by Serbian forces, their mutilated bodies left strewn on the forest floor. Miraculously, a 6-week-old baby, Diturie, was found by her father alive in the clasp of her dead mother, Lumnije, 30, more than 24 hours after the killings. ``First it was machine guns, then grenades, then cannon,'' she said. The state-controlled Serbian media center in Kosovo's capital, Pristina, said 10 Serbian police officers were killed in the fighting, including five reservists who died when their vehicle hit an antitank mine on Sept. 25. Survivors of the clan said they had feared an assault on their collection of mud and brick homes lining a rocky dirt track directly opposite the village of Likovac, the Serbs' base just a mile away. He said he believed the women, children and elderly would be spared if the Serbs found them. As the Serbs approached on foot the Saturday morning of the massacre, the last person to flee the compound itself was Bashkim Delijaj, 21, the youngest son of 94-year-old Fazli. They believe that the police officer, who is posted at the nearby Glogovac police station, was used by the Serbian special police officers as a guide to the Obrinje area. He did not express direct remorse for allowing his family to use a hiding place so close to the family compound, which for all practical purposes was an informal base for fighters. His lawyer, Bajram Krasniqi, who said he was eager to be helpful to investigators of the Hague tribunal, said in Pristina that he believed Imer Delijaj felt guilty for a faulty decision.

 anti-summary: 
 ``Blood was in her mouth and her mother's hand on the baby,'' said Imer Delijaj, the father, an avowed member of the Kosovo Liberation Army, the ethnic Albanian guerrilla force, who returned in uniform to discover the bodies. '' Several members of the Delijaj clan survived. In the days before Sept. 26, he said, the guerrillas _ caught in a Serbian pincer movement _ had decided to fight rather than surrender. In Obrinje, led by another former officer of the Yugoslav army whom Maloku declined to name, the guerrillas fought, using land mines and rocket-propelled grenades. They were in brown army uniforms, had huge knives or small axes. '' Bashkim Delijaj said he was unable to carry his father to safety, and did not have the courage to tell him what was happening. When the firing had died down Monday morning, he returned to the compound and ran into Imer, still wearing his guerrilla uniform. ``The ethnic Albanian policeman could be an important witness to identifying the police and army units responsible for the atrocities,'' said Peter Boueckhart, a researcher for Human Rights Watch. If I can see eye to eye with men I will fight them. But only with men in uniform and in a fair fight.

 textrank summary:
 '' Several members of the Delijaj clan survived. He said he believed that it was those deaths the Serbs avenged with the massacre of the Delijajs. In this case, it appears, Serbian vengeance was visited upon the Delijajs. Most women and children in the area had moved into Apple Valley, where more than 10,000 refugees had gathered outdoors, seeking safety in numbers. But Imer Delijaj, 38, said he decided that the ravine below his family compound would be a better hiding place. When the firing had died down Monday morning, he returned to the compound and ran into Imer, still wearing his guerrilla uniform. Together, the two men went to find out what had happened in the ravine. They moved on to find Jeton, Imer's 10-year-old son, and Imer's mother, Hamide, 60, not far away. Later in the month, the body of Hajriz was found pushed down a well, close to the ravine. Delijaj family members have told Human Rights Watch monitors and others that they saw an ethnic Albanian police officer accompanying the Serbian police officers during the fighting.
