summary: 
 Maj. Gen. Radislav Krstic, arrested without incident in the American sector in northeast Bosnia, is the highest-ranking official to be seized so far, and the first serving military officer. He is accused of directing the attack on Srebrenica in 1995, one of the most chilling and influential events of the Bosnian war, when some 7,000 Bosnian Muslim men were marched off, presumably to their deaths, as U.N. peacekeepers stood by. He is indicted both in connection with ``direct personal involvement in the commission of these crimes'' as well as his command responsibility. He is also accused of murder and other crimes against humanity. '' A Pentagon official said the arrest, the most important made in the American sector, ``was a sign that this is a continuing process. Officials say that both Mladic and Karadzic are believed to have left the Bosnian Serb Republic to live in Serbia, which is part of Yugoslavia and controlled by Milosvevic. Krstic, who was transferred to The Hague for trial, is the 35th suspect who has been taken there and the 26th person currently being held there. It was where the United Nations first made a stand in March 1993, when the commander of U.N. troops personally led a convoy of trucks to the surrounded town and promised the Bosnian Muslims there that Srebrenica would be a ``safe area'' and the United Nations would protect them. But in July 1995, the United Nations did not protect Srebrenica with air strikes, and peacekeeping troops watched as the Serbs marched in, separated Muslim men and women and marched the men off. Those troops will be prepared to rush to the aid of the civilian monitors if necessary. 

 anti-summary: 
 He is accused of directing the attack on Srebrenica in 1995, one of the most chilling and influential events of the Bosnian war, when some 7,000 Bosnian Muslim men were marched off, presumably to their deaths, as U.N. peacekeepers stood by. He is indicted both in connection with ``direct personal involvement in the commission of these crimes'' as well as his command responsibility. He is considered a close associate of the Bosnian Serb commander, Gen. Ratko Mladic, and the former Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic, both of whom are wanted by the tribunal. And he is considered capable, if he is willing to testify, of implicating Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic, who has not been indicted. Krstic, who was transferred to The Hague for trial, is the 35th suspect who has been taken there and the 26th person currently being held there. He is the commander of the Bosnian Serb 5th Corps and was arrested while traveling on the road to Bijelina. At the outset of the war in 1992, he was an officer of the Yugoslav Army, and like all senior Bosnian Serb officers, was transferred to the new Bosnian Serb force. In Sarajevo Wednesday, an aide to the Bosnian Muslim member of the collective presidency, Alija Izetbegovic, praised the arrest. ``We welcome this action, hoping very soon that the time will come for Karadzic and Mladic to be brought to justice,'' said the aide, Mirza Jajric. Under a deal pressed on Milosevic in October, the organization will provide up to 2,000 civilians to monitor a cease-fire in Kosovo and to promote a political settlement there to give Kosovo enhanced autonomy.

 textrank summary:
 He is considered a close associate of the Bosnian Serb commander, Gen. Ratko Mladic, and the former Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic, both of whom are wanted by the tribunal. '' James Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said that the arrest ``serves as a standing warning to those indicted for war crimes, who remain at large, that they will be held individually accountable for their actions. A senior official of a NATO country called the arrest ``very good news'' and said it was ``a warning to Milosevic himself'' and others who have not been publicly indicted that ``the murders committed have not been forgotten. '' NATO-led peacekeeping troops have now arrested nine people wanted for war crimes in the former Yugoslavia, four of whom were the subject of sealed indictments. There have been numerous calls for the arrest of Mladic and Karadzic, the two most infamous men indicted, but they normally are accompanied by armed guards. NATO forces have never tried to arrest them, apparently fearing casualties and an angry public reaction from Bosnian Serbs. Officials say that both Mladic and Karadzic are believed to have left the Bosnian Serb Republic to live in Serbia, which is part of Yugoslavia and controlled by Milosvevic. Ivo Daalder, a former Bosnia expert on the National Security Council, now with the Brookings Institution, said the arrest showed a new and promising coordination between the Tribunal and NATO troops, given the rapid arrest after the Oct. 30 indictment. He also said that the arrest of a serving officer for an important war crime would send an important message. In Sarajevo Wednesday, an aide to the Bosnian Muslim member of the collective presidency, Alija Izetbegovic, praised the arrest.
