summary: 
 Knowing their baseball as well as they do, everybody in the Joe Torre family passed up tickets for the divisional series and the league championship series as just so much parsley on the plate of life. ``The pressure was on to get to the World Series, so I can see all those people,'' Torre, the Yankees' manager, was saying before New York went out to play the here-we-are, let's-go-for-it San Diego Padres in the Stadium Saturday night. The three-tiered playoff system has practically turned baseball into football, where the survival-of-the-fittest mentality produces one exalted Super Bowl champion and a league full of chumps and losers, condemned to a nether world of Parcells-like demons kicking them in their sore spots for eternity. The World Series is still a competition between one league that encourages pitchers to be athletes and another league relatively devoid of strategy. In Atlanta, the team of the '90s has won exactly one World Series, and now it is up to management to keep repeating that: ``The main goal is to get to the Series. '' In Cleveland, the fans had to live with the phrase ``Nineteen forty-eight! ``You want to win, but getting to the World Series is so tough after playing 162 games and getting into post-season and then having to fight, bite and scratch and everything else to get here. '' Torre continued: ``You don't think about in spring training that we want to go and win the World Series. ``As far as legitimizing our season _ I hate to even think in negative terms, but if San Diego happens to win the World Series, sure it takes a little bit of the luster off what we have accomplished by getting here, but I think that was our goal, initially. While they're at it, the Yankees had better win the whole thing.

 anti-summary: 
  Talk about high expectations. Anything less than 125 would feel like emptiness. But why should the Yankees be any different from the six teams that already fell off the bus to this World Series? The gloom and doom in the six other cities will not compare to the letdown that would grip New York and the owner's insatiable little heart should the Yanks come up short. The World Series is still different, which is why we should all resist the babble of ``post-season records'' flung at us by the hyperactive computers and the hyperactive broadcasters from the dozens of different networks that carry baseball. In Chicago, the glory of winning a special playoff for the wild-card spot and Sammy Sosa's 66 home runs has been pre-empted. The very city that beat the Cubs for the 1969 eastern title held a parade for Sosa Saturday in the canyons where Lindbergh and John Glenn and the 1969 Mets were once hailed. In Atlanta, the team of the '90s has won exactly one World Series, and now it is up to management to keep repeating that: ``The main goal is to get to the Series. '' being chanted at the Indians in the Bronx as the Yankees put the Indians out of misery. Bruce Bochy, the manager, a reserve on the 1984 San Diego World Series team, has said: ``A lot of the players on that team said, looking back, we wish we would have had a little different attitude instead of just saying, `Hey, we are in the World Series.

 textrank summary:
 Knowing their baseball as well as they do, everybody in the Joe Torre family passed up tickets for the divisional series and the league championship series as just so much parsley on the plate of life. Anything less than 125 would feel like emptiness. But in 1969, baseball began league championship series, and in 1995 it began a two-layered playoff system. In Chicago, the glory of winning a special playoff for the wild-card spot and Sammy Sosa's 66 home runs has been pre-empted. That leaves the Padres as the only team with virtually nothing to lose. Bruce Bochy, the manager, a reserve on the 1984 San Diego World Series team, has said: ``A lot of the players on that team said, looking back, we wish we would have had a little different attitude instead of just saying, `Hey, we are in the World Series. ``I think getting here is where the pressure is,'' Torre added. You want to get to the World Series. Then you get there, well, you have played well enough and won enough games, then of course, we want to win. While they're at it, the Yankees had better win the whole thing.
