summary: 
 The Yankees trailed San Diego, 5-2, in the seventh inning, but Knoblauch hit a three-run home run to tie the score, and five batters later, Martinez smashed a grand slam. Knoblauch, of course, had earned notoriety for his gaffe in the Game 2 of the American League Championship Series against Cleveland, standing and waiting for an interference call as the ball rolled to a stop behind him and the decisive run scored. Knoblauch rounded the bases, crossed home plate and thrust both arms into the air, yelling to the crowd, like a hyped Olympic weightlifter who had just successfully hoisted a half-ton. When Derek Jeter singled, nobody really noticed. Paul O'Neill flied out, and after Jeter advanced on a wild pitch, Bernie Williams was intentionally walked. Bases loaded, once more, with Martinez coming to the plate, with exactly one run batted in in his first 76 career at-bats in league championship and World Series games. Langston and Martinez and everyone on the field now understood that with the bases loaded and a 3-2 count, Langston would have to throw what players refer to as a cookie _ a tasty pitch over the middle. They loaded the bases with a single and two walks, and Ledee, the rookie left fielder who is playing because none of Torre's left fielders have been hitting, pulled a sinking fastball down the right field line with two outs. Jorge Posada, the Yankees' catcher, jogged to the mound to re-think the strategy, perhaps to remind Wells of the conventional wisdom: you must pitch Vaughn on the outer edge of the plate. Veras' bat snapped on contact, but it was enough to send a looper into short center field, a single.

 anti-summary: 
 Two big hits in the midst of a big inning changed all that Saturday night in Game 1 of the World Series. The seven-run explosion rocketed the Yankees to a 9-6 victory in the opener of the four-of-seven-game series, before 56,712 at Yankee Stadium. Brown was pitching with a three-run lead after the top of the fifth, when Tony Gwynn and Greg Vaughn banged back-to-back homers. Off the bat, it did not look like much. San Diego's lead was long gone. The Yankees had taken a 2-0 lead over Brown in the second inning, forcing him to throw 32 pitches in the second. The fans along the foul line stood, some waving to push the ball fair with the body English, and the ball landed on the line, skipping off the wall as two runners scored. San Diego's Chris Gomez led off the second inning with a blooper over shortstop, the ball falling in for a single. Posada returned to the plate, called for an outside fastball, Wells threw. With a runner on first, he likes to try to pull a ball through the right side of the infield.

 textrank summary:
 The Yankees trailed San Diego, 5-2, in the seventh inning, but Knoblauch hit a three-run home run to tie the score, and five batters later, Martinez smashed a grand slam. Orlando Hernandez will pitch against Andy Ashby in Game 2 Sunday night at the Stadium. One out into the seventh, however, Jorge Posada hit a single, and Brown walked Ricky Ledee. They loaded the bases with a single and two walks, and Ledee, the rookie left fielder who is playing because none of Torre's left fielders have been hitting, pulled a sinking fastball down the right field line with two outs. The fans along the foul line stood, some waving to push the ball fair with the body English, and the ball landed on the line, skipping off the wall as two runners scored. San Diego's Chris Gomez led off the second inning with a blooper over shortstop, the ball falling in for a single. Posada returned to the plate, called for an outside fastball, Wells threw. With a runner on first, he likes to try to pull a ball through the right side of the infield. Wells fired a fastball, Gwynn turned on the pitch and ripped it, a line drive that crashed off the facing of the upper deck in right field. Two pitches, two home runs, the first back-to-back home runs allowed by Wells since April 30.
