summary: 
  A new shipment of bats arrived for Tino Martinez on Friday, and he massaged the handles to make sure they were thin enough, knocked on the barrels and listened for a certain sound and swung them slowly again and again. Martinez was so excited about the fresh bats, he reacted like a Little Leaguer who was wielding an aluminum bat for the first time. '' As much as Joe Torre talked about Martinez needing one line-drive hit to get him in a groove, the 30-year-old first baseman is in a career drought in the post-season. Those are puny statistics, especially for a player who has driven in 381 runs in 455 regular season games over the last three years. '' It cannot get much tougher for Martinez, who was dropped from fifth to sixth in the order during the American League Championship Series against the Cleveland Indians and will remain in that spot until further notice. He has sometimes flailed at poor pitches during hitter's counts of 3-1 and 2-0, instead of working the count, and he has admitted that his previous failures in the post-season have caused him to pursue the obviously unattainable five-run homer. Actually, Martinez has already made some alterations, and he has reached base 7 times in his last 10 plates appearances on a double, a single, a hit-by-pitch and 4 walks. It is not enough to pacify George Steinbrenner, but it is something for him to cling to. Until last night, anyway, when Martinez had to face Kevin Brown, a nasty right-hander who had retired him in 30 of 34 career at-bats. You want to go out there and enjoy that game and try to do your best to win that game.

 anti-summary: 
 It's easier to do that in post-season because your next at-bat could be the biggest at-bat of the season. He is 5 for 30 with 10 strikeouts, no homers and only 1 run batted in for a hitting-starved team that has batted .229 while still winning 7 of 9 post-season games because of superior pitching. ``We've just gotten through two good series,'' said Paul O'Neill. You don't focus on one guy. You focus on winning. Since joining the Yankees, Martinez is 20 for 107 (.187) with one homer and 4 RBI in 29 post-season games. ``Baseball has a way of evening things out. Martinez has blamed his paucity of production on impatience and on trying to do too much. '' The Yankees will wait with him. It was a difficult decision because Martinez had paced the team in RBI while Fielder did not join the Yankees until July 31.

 textrank summary:
 Martinez was so excited about the fresh bats, he reacted like a Little Leaguer who was wielding an aluminum bat for the first time. '' Martinez said to the representative from the bat company. ``You always get a fresh start in the post-season because it's game to game,'' said Martinez. ``If you win, you've got another game the next day so you forget about the bad at-bats. It's easier to do that in post-season because your next at-bat could be the biggest at-bat of the season. ``We've just gotten through two good series,'' said Paul O'Neill. ``If I was getting good pitches and missing them, then I'd say I have a bad swing working,'' said Martinez. ``But I've been swinging at bad pitches. In the 1996 World Series, Torre started Cecil Fielder over Martinez at first in Games 3, 4 and 5. Torre does not have such an attractive replacement this season in Luis Sojo.
