summary: 
  The last time they were seen on the field at Yankee Stadium, they were inadvertently influencing the outcome of the game that sent the Cleveland Indians home and the Yankees to the World Series. The three American League umpires who are on the six-man World Series crew did work in the first round of the playoffs. One of them, Richie Garcia, will be the crew chief and behind the plate in Saturday night's opener at Yankee Stadium. Ah yes, the last time Garcia worked a post-season series at Yankee Stadium, he was the umpire in Game 1 of the league championship series two years ago when a young fan from New Jersey _ no name, please; he has been over-glorified enough _ reached over the fence and caught Derek Jeter's fly ball just as Tony Tarasco, Baltimore's right fielder, prepared to catch it. Garcia ruled no interference, that it was a home run, then said oops after watching a television replay clearly showing interference. ``We had a highlight reel of umpires getting knocked down by baseballs,'' general manager John Hart said after the Indians' final game against the Yankees. Hendry called Bernie Williams safe, ruling that Vizquel's foot came off the base before he caught the ball. Maybe Garcia, Dale Scott and Tim Tschida from the American League, and Jerry Crawford, Dana DeMuth and Mark Hirschbeck from the National League, will be as sharp as an 18th century French guillotine in these four to seven games. Budig said: ``The World Series crew is proven and first-rate. We have total confidence in them.

 anti-summary: 
 That's not to say the umpires will mess up in the World Series, but they have shown they are eminently capable of interfering with the natural progression of postseason games. One of them, Richie Garcia, will be the crew chief and behind the plate in Saturday night's opener at Yankee Stadium. That knowledge comes as small consolation to the Orioles. ``The umpires didn't lose the game for us, but we had our share of controversies in two playoff series with umpires. It was a big play. I don't want to get into that. '' When a player believes he was safe, he says so and doesn't worry about any subsequent controversy. If Williams was implying that he thought he was out, another member of the Yankees said he had no doubt that Williams was out. I also thought Omar is so smooth you'd think he wouldn't come off the bag. '' The game today is faster than it used to be, this observer said.

 textrank summary:
 All right, so Ted Hendry won't be in the World Series; the umpires' collective bargaining agreement with the leagues does not allow an umpire to work both a league championship series and the World Series. Joe Brinkman won't be here either, even though the agreement does allow for an umpire to work both a division series and the World Series. '' But after Saturday night, Garcia will move to right field Sunday night for Game 2. Now why does that combination sound familiar, Richie Garcia and right field? Ah yes, the last time Garcia worked a post-season series at Yankee Stadium, he was the umpire in Game 1 of the league championship series two years ago when a young fan from New Jersey _ no name, please; he has been over-glorified enough _ reached over the fence and caught Derek Jeter's fly ball just as Tony Tarasco, Baltimore's right fielder, prepared to catch it. ``The umpires didn't lose the game for us, but we had our share of controversies in two playoff series with umpires. Members of the Yankees indicated Friday that they, too, thought the call was wrong. '' But did he think he was out? '' The game today is faster than it used to be, this observer said. Leonard Coleman, the NL president, said he thought his umpires were first-rate in the division and league series and added that he has ``three splendid umpires'' working the World Series.
