summary: 
 ``I'm just going to relax at home and watch the game. I'm looking forward to it. '' Paul O'Neill echoed the sentiments of many Yankees by saying, ``Everything we're going through is game. '' Since cancerous cells were found in one of the 36 lymph nodes removed from his abdomen during the operation, Strawberry said doctors told him he will need six months of chemotherapy treatment once he returns to California. ``I was more emotional than anything. I wanted to keep playing because I knew we were going to get into the World Series. ``I don't think that I was ever scared. '' Although the discovery of cancer in one lymph node proved that the cancer had spread, Strawberry remained optimistic about his future and said, ``It didn't worry me. It didn't run off and get crazy like cancer can. ``Wow, I never thought this day would come,'' Strawberry said.

 anti-summary: 
  Hours after Darryl Strawberry was released from Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center Friday, he spoke happily about being able to play with his two young children, joked about eating a small amount of chicken and potatoes and sounded relieved to be at home in Fort Lee, N.J., instead of in a hospital. ``I'm really feeling good,'' said Strawberry, in a telephone interview. ``It's nice to be home with the kids and to just kick back. That's all that I'm going to do. '' Strawberry, who underwent surgery to remove a cancer from his colon on Oct. 3, said he will remain in New Jersey for another 10 or 12 days before returning home to Rancho Mirage, Calif. '' Since cancerous cells were found in one of the 36 lymph nodes removed from his abdomen during the operation, Strawberry said doctors told him he will need six months of chemotherapy treatment once he returns to California. The 36-year-old outfielder said doctors told him he will need one treatment of at least one hour a week. '' Although the discovery of cancer in one lymph node proved that the cancer had spread, Strawberry remained optimistic about his future and said, ``It didn't worry me. '' Unlike David Wells, Saturday night's starter in the World Series who predicted the Yankees would throttle the Padres in five games, Strawberry refused to make a prediction about whether he will soon be getting his third World Series ring. But Strawberry, who is still hopeful about returning to play in 1999, sounded very confident in the 1998 Yankees, who are wearing his number 39 on the back of their caps as inspiration.

 textrank summary:
 ``I'm just going to relax at home and watch the game. I may not be there, but it'll feel like I am. '' Paul O'Neill echoed the sentiments of many Yankees by saying, ``Everything we're going through is game. Any time we get some good news about Darryl it's uplifting. I wanted to keep playing because I knew we were going to get into the World Series. ``I wanted to be there because that's what you play for,'' said Strawberry. It didn't run off and get crazy like cancer can. ``Wow, I never thought this day would come,'' Strawberry said. '' It's not going to be easy, but I think they're ready. You've made it to that point and then you go do the best you can do.
