summary: 
 Reasons for concern: the erratic Andy Pettitte, who needs a home-plate umpire to call strikes on pitches low and away, and Jeff Nelson, who lost his command in his last brief outing. The Yankees could use a contribution from Jorge Posada, who will start in Games 1 and 2 and may get a chance to drive pitches low in the strike zone, where he can hit with power. Nobody's really taken advantage of the fact that Williams has a poor arm in center field, but rest assured that Ken Caminiti, Steve Finley and Greg Vaughn will try. But the Padres are a veteran team capable of putting the ball in play, getting runners on base and then moving them along, and so long as they are getting exceptional pitching, that's all they really need. Vaughn's power could be a factor if the Yankees' pitchers don't jam him enough to keep him from leaning over the plate. Shortstop Chris Gomez and the second baseman Veras are adept at turning double plays, and Caminiti won a Gold Glove at third base last year; Wally Joyner has good hands at first; the center fielder Steve Finley is extremely quick in tracking down base hits and returning the ball to the infield. Left-handers like David Wells can beat him with breaking balls low and outside. Greg Vaughn: Big-time power on anything high and over the plate. Cheats some now to get his bat started, making him vulnerable to off-speed pitches. SATURDAY'S PITCHERS Kevin Brown: Best sinking fastball in the game (91-93) mph, a four-seam fastball of 95-97 mph to throw high in the strike zone, a slider that breaks down and away from right-handed batters, and a forkball that dives at 88-89 mph.

 anti-summary: 
  YANKEES Pitching The starting pitching enabled the Yankees to advance past Cleveland in the American League Championship Series. Mariano Rivera's stuff might be as good as it has been all year, and Mike Stanton continues to be a dominant postseason pitcher. San Diego's middle relief is the weakest aspect of the team, with Randy Myers and Mark Langston from the left side (the stuff of each has waned). Defense They mostly catch the ball and avoid mistakes, though they are unspectacular. Tony Gwynn's range is better toward the right field line, not nearly as good on balls hit in the gaps. The Yankees will be able to run on the arm of Vaughn in left field. Left-handers like David Wells can beat him with breaking balls low and outside. Ken Caminiti: More power right-handed, a better hitter left-handed. Chili Davis: Has a great eye and will work a pitcher deep into a count, but he can be overpowered with fastballs above his belt. Throw strikes: Allowed as many home runs (29) as walks (29), but has not allowed a three-run homer or a grand slam all year. 

 textrank summary:
 When Ashby's right, he's hitting the corners with his sinking fastball and his slider, and when his command is suspect, he gets pounded. The Yankees will be able to run on the arm of Vaughn in left field. PITCHING TO THE PADRES Quilvio Veras: A switch-hitter who has more power right-handed; should try to pitch him down-and-in with breaking balls when he's hitting right-handed, jam him with fastballs when he's batting left-handed. Steve Finley: A left-handed hitter who likes to pull the ball. Ken Caminiti: More power right-handed, a better hitter left-handed. Wally Joyner: With runners on base, he'll try to jump on a fastball early in the count. Is not a strong hitter and can be jammed. Chris Gomez: Like Derek Jeter, likes to hit pitches inside out, to right field and through the middle. Carlos Hernandez: Looks for the first-pitch fastball in the upper half of the strike zone. Derek Jeter: Sometimes he has a tendency to chase pitches at his feet, but if you don't get the ball in far enough, he can hammer the ball over the wall in right.
