summary: 
 Free of worrying about his extremely uncertain future and an undisclosed personal matter that has made this post-season as perplexing as it has been pleasing. Williams does not know if he will sign with the Yankees and return to center field next season, because he wants to test free agency. There is a good chance the Yankees will not offer him the most lavish contract, so Williams might be forced to decide between the fattest paycheck and a new situation in the baseball city of his choice or a pretty fat paycheck and a familiar situation in the Bronx. Scott Boras, Williams' agent, compared his client with players in the $10 million-a-year bracket last season, so that price tag has surely escalated after Williams won the American League batting title with a .339 average while drilling 26 homers and knocking in 97 runs. ``And I'm thinking about this a little more than I would like to. Still, it is an issue that hovers over the Yankees as ominously as the owner George Steinbrenner hovers over general manager Brian Cashman. '' Although Williams has been adamant about not discussing the future, he relented slightly Friday. '' When Williams was asked what better situation could a player have than being the center fielder for the Yankees, winning a batting crown and being in the World Series, the 30-year-old was stumped. It is more likely that the Yanks would offer Williams in the $10 million-a-year range. When a reporter asked Williams how he would respond to someone who suggested that he accept less from the Yankees to remain in a city where he is popular, where he likes his teammates and manager, and where the team has been in the post-season for four straight years, he did not hesitate to answer.

 anti-summary: 
 ``And I'm thinking about this a little more than I would like to. I would like to keep my focus on the series. ``Just the fact that I've been here my whole career,'' Williams said. '' Williams continued: ``But I think the reality of the game in this day and age is things happen. People get traded. ``It's funny you mention that, because I really haven't thought about any of that. '' While Cashman would not discuss financial matters, another Yankee official said the team will not offer Williams as much as $12 million a year _ unless Steinbrenner gets generous after a possible championship. ``We'll give it our best effort to sign him at a level that we're comfortable with. But, with Williams' status uncertain, he was asked if the next four to seven games would be bittersweet, since he could be ending a 13-year association with the Yankees. '' Then Williams walked away from the interview. 

 textrank summary:
  As Bernie Williams starts what could be his final series with the Yankees in Game 1 of the World Series at Yankee Stadium Saturday night, he wants to do it with a free mind. I would like to keep my focus on the series. The relationships that I've come to know during the years, I think it would be very hard, but not impossible, to start from scratch somewhere else. '' Williams continued: ``But I think the reality of the game in this day and age is things happen. People get traded. People become free agents and go to other teams. ``Wow, that's pretty good right there,'' Williams said. '' Williams then talked about how the Yankees are at the end of a remarkable season and how he did not want his situation to disrupt that. ``I don't want to talk about that,'' Williams said. I'm going to go all out.
