summary: 
  Trying to deflect foreign criticism of a crackdown on democracy campaigners, China sent a respected labor rights activist from jail into U.S. exile Sunday even as it prepared to put a prominent dissident on trial. Xu Wenli's trial Monday and his almost certain conviction would deprive a nascent opposition political party of a potent organizer and a moderate voice. For organizing the party and thereby challenging the ruling Communist Party, Xu, 55, is accused of subverting state power, a crime punishable by 10 years to life in prison. But only last month did authorities grant a comprehensive exam. The timing of Liu's exile and Xu's trial was the most brazen in a string of high-profile dissident releases calculated to influence Western governments. Over the past two years, as China tried to woo the West, Beijing signed two key U.N. rights treaties and won praise for bringing its spotty legal system closer to international standards. The Beijing court appointed Xu a lawyer, but his wife, He Xintong, suspects it is merely a formality in what she expects to be a show trial. '' He Xintong said after talking with the lawyer and his aide. He became openly involved in the China Democracy Party in November, organizing the group's branch in Beijing and nearby Tianjin. Shortly before his arrest, he called on party members and exiled dissidents to convene a nationwide congress. 

 anti-summary: 
 Authorities released Liu on medical parole five months before the end of his sentence provided he go abroad, said his brother, exiled democracy campaigner Liu Qing. The timing of Liu's exile and Xu's trial was the most brazen in a string of high-profile dissident releases calculated to influence Western governments. Over the past two years, as China tried to woo the West, Beijing signed two key U.N. rights treaties and won praise for bringing its spotty legal system closer to international standards. Over the past six months, dissidents in 14 provinces and cities have tried to use Chinese laws to set up and register the China Democracy Party. In a sign of the opposition party's appeal, 205 dissidents from across China issued a petition Sunday calling for the immediate release of Xu and two other leaders, the Hong Kong-based Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China reported. To wipe out the opposition movement, authorities have violated recently revised laws that are supposed to protect the rights of criminal suspects. They rushed Xu and fellow leader Qin Yongmin to trial with less than four days notice given to their families, instead of the 10 required by law. The Beijing court appointed Xu a lawyer, but his wife, He Xintong, suspects it is merely a formality in what she expects to be a show trial. ``He hasn't even read the whole indictment. Since his parole ended last year, Xu has played the role of elder adviser to dissidents.

 textrank summary:
  Trying to deflect foreign criticism of a crackdown on democracy campaigners, China sent a respected labor rights activist from jail into U.S. exile Sunday even as it prepared to put a prominent dissident on trial. Xu Wenli's trial Monday and his almost certain conviction would deprive a nascent opposition political party of a potent organizer and a moderate voice. He is the third and most influential leader in the China Democracy Party tried in a three-week campaign that has seen at least 32 members detained or questioned. The timing of Liu's exile and Xu's trial was the most brazen in a string of high-profile dissident releases calculated to influence Western governments. In a sign of the opposition party's appeal, 205 dissidents from across China issued a petition Sunday calling for the immediate release of Xu and two other leaders, the Hong Kong-based Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China reported. They rushed Xu and fellow leader Qin Yongmin to trial with less than four days notice given to their families, instead of the 10 required by law. ``He hasn't even read the whole indictment. '' He Xintong said after talking with the lawyer and his aide. Xu edited an influential dissident journal in the Democracy Wall movement 20 years ago and spent 12 years in prison, most of them in solitary confinement. Shortly before his arrest, he called on party members and exiled dissidents to convene a nationwide congress. 
