summary: 
  In stern judgments capping a decisive crackdown on dissidents, Chinese courts sentenced two prominent democracy campaigners to 13 and 11 years in prison Monday for trying to organize an opposition political party. Xu remained defiant during his tightly controlled trial on subversion charges. ``All he wanted to do was to advocate free speech and make sure the party registers peacefully. But the government failed this test, and now my father has to go to jail again for it,'' said daughter Xu Jin, a graduate student at Boston University. Security forces have orchestrated a concerted crackdown, trampling China's slim legal safeguards to crush the China Democracy Party. All three were charged with trying to subvert China's Communist Party-led system. Judges in Beijing and Hangzhou found that Xu and Wang plotted subversion by founding branches of the China Democracy Party in both cities and accepting money from abroad, the official Xinhua News Agency said in a rare mention of dissident activities. ``We are deeply disappointed with both the guilty verdict and the extremely harsh sentence given to Mr. Xu,'' said U.S. Embassy spokesman Bill Palmer. He supported Qin Yongmin, another Democracy Wall veteran, in setting up an independent human rights monitor and advised others to run for local legislative seats in Beijing. Wang Youcai, a student leader of the Tiananmen Square democracy demonstrations in 1989 and now 32, publicly declared the China Democracy Party's formation in June and said the group intended to challenge the Communist Party's 49-year ban on opposition politics.

 anti-summary: 
 Security forces have orchestrated a concerted crackdown, trampling China's slim legal safeguards to crush the China Democracy Party. Xu and Qin were given less than four days to prepare their defenses. Last Thursday, Wang and Qin faced trials without legal counsel after police detained or scared off potential lawyers. The courts ruled the two should be ``severely punished'' as repeat offenders, Xinhua said in an indirect reference to their previous democracy campaigning. Police detained at least two of Xu's democracy party colleagues and kept watch on the houses of others. The U.S. government and exiled dissidents, many of whom supported the party's efforts, denounced the sentences and called for the dissidents' release. ``No individual should be arrested, tried or sentenced for exercising internationally recognized freedoms. Wang Youcai, a student leader of the Tiananmen Square democracy demonstrations in 1989 and now 32, publicly declared the China Democracy Party's formation in June and said the group intended to challenge the Communist Party's 49-year ban on opposition politics. Police have sporadically detained supporters of the democracy party. In a speech broadcast nationwide on Friday, Jiang warned against subversives trying to bring down the system and vowed never to copy Western democracy.

 textrank summary:
 The 13-year prison term given Xu Wenli after a 3 1/2-hour trial in Beijing was the longest for a Chinese dissident in three years. His colleague in the China Democracy Party, Wang Youcai, was sentenced to 11 years, in a verdict announced by a court in Hangzhou four days after his trial. ``All he wanted to do was to advocate free speech and make sure the party registers peacefully. No verdict has been announced in Qin's case. The courts ruled the two should be ``severely punished'' as repeat offenders, Xinhua said in an indirect reference to their previous democracy campaigning. Police detained at least two of Xu's democracy party colleagues and kept watch on the houses of others. ``Members of the China Democracy Party will struggle to the end for the realization of democracy,'' said Gao Hongmin, whose home was under surveillance. In just six months, the party attracted enough of a following to try to register branches in 14 provinces and cities. Wang Youcai, a student leader of the Tiananmen Square democracy demonstrations in 1989 and now 32, publicly declared the China Democracy Party's formation in June and said the group intended to challenge the Communist Party's 49-year ban on opposition politics. Police have sporadically detained supporters of the democracy party.
