summary: 
 ``Democracy is a process, and in that process a small number of people will be sacrificed,'' Zha, a 47-year-old former manager of a computer design company and vice chairman of the party's Beijing branch, told The Associated Press in an interview Thursday. '' With a mixture of defiance and cool clarity about the chances for success, Zha said he and other China Democracy Party members will continue organizing and campaigning for change. His tenacity holds despite the summary trials and harsh punishments for Xu, Wang Youcai and Qin Yongmin _ prominent party principals from the provinces who were sentenced to 11 and 12 years _ and despite threatening signs from the ruling Communist Party. Chinese President Jiang Zemin warned in a speech published Wednesday that political subversives threatened what he called China's fragile social order. ``Whenever any element that undermines stability raises its head, it must be resolutely nipped in the bud,'' Jiang said. '' ``We believe elections held after the establishment of a democratic system should decide who has the power,'' said Zha. Police took Zha from his home Sunday afternoon and held him for nearly 24 hours to keep him from Xu's trial. Organizers publicly announced their intention to set up the party. All had proven track records, Xu and Qin as dissident editors in the Democracy Wall era movement 20 years ago, Wang as a student leader of the Tiananmen Square democracy demonstrations in 1989. Having been released from prison two years before, Xu was still not openly involved in dissident politics, but he held court in his Beijing home to discuss China's future. 

 anti-summary: 
 A bag packed with toothbrush, toothpaste and medicine lies ready at his Beijing home for the day Chinese police take him away. He has told police interrogators he expects to be jailed, likely for a few years less than the 13 given China Democracy Party leader Xu Wenli on Monday. '' ``We believe elections held after the establishment of a democratic system should decide who has the power,'' said Zha. Police took Zha from his home Sunday afternoon and held him for nearly 24 hours to keep him from Xu's trial. Until the crackdown, the China Democracy Party distinguished itself from past attempts at opposition by its openness. They tried to register with authorities. Statements were faxed to foreign media and human rights groups to circumvent China's state-controlled media. Party members will concentrate on increasing ranks and will be more guarded in the use of telephones and faxes and their occasional meetings, Zha said. ``If Xu and the other two were the first round, then the second round is very likely and it will be bigger,'' Zha said. All had proven track records, Xu and Qin as dissident editors in the Democracy Wall era movement 20 years ago, Wang as a student leader of the Tiananmen Square democracy demonstrations in 1989.

 textrank summary:
  His friend and political mentor is jailed, robbing their budding opposition political party of its most potent organizer, but Zha Jianguo is not afraid. '' ``We believe elections held after the establishment of a democratic system should decide who has the power,'' said Zha. In the past month, authorities have arrested and convicted Xu, Qin and Wang and detained or interrogated at least 29 other party members. Police took Zha from his home Sunday afternoon and held him for nearly 24 hours to keep him from Xu's trial. Until the crackdown, the China Democracy Party distinguished itself from past attempts at opposition by its openness. Party members will concentrate on increasing ranks and will be more guarded in the use of telephones and faxes and their occasional meetings, Zha said. ``In such an unbalanced contest, we are forced to use more secretive means. '' The arrests of Xu, Wang and Qin deprive the party of its more influential members, Zha said. All had proven track records, Xu and Qin as dissident editors in the Democracy Wall era movement 20 years ago, Wang as a student leader of the Tiananmen Square democracy demonstrations in 1989. ``But from another aspect, this has strengthened the resolve of even more party members to struggle on,'' Zha said of the arrests.
