summary: 
 '' Xu's alleged crimes included helping to organize a new political party, calling for an end to Communist rule in interviews with foreign journalists, calling for independent labor unions and, prosecutors said, accepting $500 from a dissident abroad. His trial began in the central city of Wuhan on Thursday and may reconvene on Tuesday, relatives said. A similarly long sentence is expected. They also appeared to spell the effective end here of the China Democracy Party, which these three men, along with hundreds of lesser-known individuals, tried to organize in recent months. The long sentences also crushed the hopes of many liberal intellectuals here that China's warming relations with the United States in recent years and its signing of global treaties on human rights might bring a significant easing of political controls. Xu first came to prominence during the Democracy Wall movement of the late 1970s, then served 12 years in prison, much of it in solitary confinement. '' Like Thursday's trials, both of which proceeded with no defense attorneys because prospective lawyers had been warned off by police or detained, Monday's proceeding showed that in cases involving security issues, police and courts could write their own rules. Before Monday morning's trial, the lawyer, Mo Shaoping, saw his client only for one brief meeting, an associate of Mo's said. He, who has been married to Xu since 1971, said she expected to see him in monthly visits to prison. ``And if I die,'' Xu said as they parted that day, ``please plant a tree for me.

 anti-summary: 
 The punishment of a third veteran democracy campaigner, Qin Yongmin, 44, has not been announced. Xu first came to prominence during the Democracy Wall movement of the late 1970s, then served 12 years in prison, much of it in solitary confinement. In the last several months, sensing a new opportunity to speak out and making constant use of fax machines and e-mail, he and Qin tried to draw attention to China's obligations under two international covenants it has signed _ one on economic and cultural rights, and one on civil and political rights. Wang, in contrast, first became involved in dissident activities in 1989, while a graduate student in physics in Beijing, when he became a leader of the Tiananmen Square demonstrations. After the student movement was smashed by the army, he was on the most-wanted list, then was arrested and spent two years in prison. Before Monday morning's trial, the lawyer, Mo Shaoping, saw his client only for one brief meeting, an associate of Mo's said. He served in the navy for five years, then became an electrician with the Beijing railroad before becoming involved with the democracy movement and going to prison. ``He told me he'd be able to handle the pain,'' she later recounted in a telephone interview. The couple has a daughter, Xu Jin, who is a graduate student in fine arts at Boston University. He said Xu had told her, ``I can't change the way I am.

 textrank summary:
 After a trial that lasted just three and a half hours, Xu Wenli _ at 55 the dean of the dissident movement, and a man who has already spent 12 years in prison for advocating democracy _ was sentenced to 13 years for ``subversion of state power. He was defended by a lawyer who was appointed by the court just four days ago and met his client only once. A similarly long sentence is expected. '' said his wife of 28 years, He Xintong. Wang, in contrast, first became involved in dissident activities in 1989, while a graduate student in physics in Beijing, when he became a leader of the Tiananmen Square demonstrations. During Clinton's visit to China in June, Wang announced the formation of the China Democracy Party. Under the law, defendants also have the right to a lawyer of their choice, but Xu was assigned a lawyer by the court late last week. Xu's wife refused to meet the lawyer before the trial. On Monday afternoon, in a police station hours after the trial finished, Xu was allowed a half-hour with his wife. He said Xu had told her, ``I can't change the way I am.
