summary: 
 ``Don't grieve for me,'' he wrote in a farewell note, according to relatives who found it later. '' At the family's stone house outside Jerusalem on Sunday, visitors paying condolence calls were served sweet juice, not coffee, as Sughayer's relatives tried to make sense of what he had done. Relatives said he was an impressionable teen-ager, influenced by Islamic militants with whom he was jailed. '' But that reality, suddenly so clear Sunday, was not so apparent when Sughayer was freed seven months ago. ``He went to work at the grocery store, he finished his high school classes and he wanted to enroll in the university. He was supposed to take a driving test in a few days. When someone at home asked about the car he said nothing, and family members assumed it was one of the stolen vehicles often found here. The last, grim pieces of the puzzle fell into place. ``He asked me about someone who had moved his hardware shop to another village, about how he was doing. ``Maybe the people in his group convinced him to do this, and he could not refuse.

 anti-summary: 
 ``If you cry, cry with happiness that I'm a martyr. '' At the family's stone house outside Jerusalem on Sunday, visitors paying condolence calls were served sweet juice, not coffee, as Sughayer's relatives tried to make sense of what he had done. ``He wanted to be a martyr in the cause of God. ``He went to work at the grocery store, he finished his high school classes and he wanted to enroll in the university. ``He would joke about things and say that whatever happens is God's will,'' said a brother-in-law, who insisted on anonymity. Tahayneh had his own score to settle with the Israelis. His leg had been amputated after he was shot in a confrontation with Israeli troops during the uprising, his relatives said. At midnight, Israeli security forces raided the house and interrogated family members. Earlier we ate together, and we talked about giving charity to the poor. ``Maybe the people in his group convinced him to do this, and he could not refuse.

 textrank summary:
 Relatives say that the 21-year-old Palestinian from this village near Jerusalem showed no sign that he was heading for a suicide mission with his brother-in-law as part of a secret cell of Islamic Holy War. The young man, once an ace student, had come of age in Israeli prisons. ``He wanted to be a martyr in the cause of God. ``He would joke about things and say that whatever happens is God's will,'' said a brother-in-law, who insisted on anonymity. When someone at home asked about the car he said nothing, and family members assumed it was one of the stolen vehicles often found here. On Friday morning he left with the car, meeting his brother-in-law and old jail buddy, Suleiman Tahayneh, who came from his village near the West Bank town of Jenin. That evening, when concerned members of the Sughayer family gathered to await news of their missing relative, a man arrived and told them that he had sold his car to Youssef the previous day. It was a red Fiat, the same car they had seen near the house, and the same type of car that news reports said had exploded in the marketplace. At midnight, Israeli security forces raided the house and interrogated family members. ``Up to the last minute on Thursday night we were talking together,'' said Sughayer's oldest brother, Ali, who worked with him past midnight at the produce store.
