summary: 
  Bulent Ecevit, who was asked to form a new government Wednesday, is a former prime minister best remembered for ordering an invasion of Cyprus in 1974 that made him an overnight hero at home. Throughout the years, Ecevit, 73, has remained a strong defender of the cause of the Turkish Cypriots ``As long as Turkey lives, we won't allow the oppression and subordination of Turkish Cypriots at the hands of Greek Cypriots,'' he said in July 1997 during the 23rd anniversary celebrations of the invasion. He often said he was carrying out a duty to bring a stable government and spare Turkey from crisis - a reference to tensions between a previous Islamic-led government and the secular military. Though never a Marxist, Ecevit was in his early years viewed with suspicion by big business for espousing socialism based on heavy government social benefits and a strong role for the state sector in the economy. Despite a short alliance with an Islamic party in 1974, he is a staunch defender of Turkey's secular traditions and pushed for a crackdown on Islamic radicalism. He was imprisoned three times for carrying on with political activities despite the ban, mainly through his wife of 51 years, Rahsan, who formed the Democratic Left Party in 1985 and led it until a democratic reform in 1987 allowed Ecevit back into politics.

 anti-summary: 
 The invasion, after a short-lived coup by supporters of union with Greece, has led to the division of the island. During his tenure as deputy prime minister in a 17-month government that was toppled last week over a corruption scandal, he gave his backing to the liberal policies of the center-right-led coalition. He often said he was carrying out a duty to bring a stable government and spare Turkey from crisis - a reference to tensions between a previous Islamic-led government and the secular military. Though never a Marxist, Ecevit was in his early years viewed with suspicion by big business for espousing socialism based on heavy government social benefits and a strong role for the state sector in the economy. He was barred from politics in the years that followed a 1980 military coup. In corruption-tainted Turkish politics, he remains known as the leader with the cleanest slate.

 textrank summary:
  Bulent Ecevit, who was asked to form a new government Wednesday, is a former prime minister best remembered for ordering an invasion of Cyprus in 1974 that made him an overnight hero at home. He often said he was carrying out a duty to bring a stable government and spare Turkey from crisis - a reference to tensions between a previous Islamic-led government and the secular military. Recently, however, he has helped the government keep on good terms with the IMF, which ordered a strict curb on public spending, and approved a number of state sell-offs. A former journalist, he entered politics in 1957, rising to the leadership of the Republican People's Party in 1972, becoming prime minister in 1974, briefly in 1977 and again in 1978-79. He was barred from politics in the years that followed a 1980 military coup. Not even his alliance with Yilmaz who was ousted for alleged ties to the mob and rigging the privatization of a bank, tarnished his image. 
