summary: 
  A fire turned a Swedish dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween revelers into a deathtrap, killing at least 60 people and injuring about 180. ``It reminded me of the gas chambers at Auschwitz,'' local rescue service leader Lennart Olin said on national radio, describing the sight when rescuers first entered the building in Goteborg, a city of half a million people on the country's west coast. The fire was the deadliest in modern Swedish history since 1978, when 20 people died in the town of Boraas. At a news conference Friday morning, police said most victims choked to death on smoke and poisonous gases. They didn't even look down'' beforehand. The blaze was already consuming the two-story brick building. ``The fact that it spread so fast indicates that it was not a normal fire,'' he said. '' Jamal Fawz, 15, told TT that he was out on the dance floor when the blaze started with about 400 people inside. They maybe don't have their own identification, but have that of a friend who is a year older. Girls don't carry their identification on them, but in a bag and maybe that wasn't lying with the body,'' she said, according to TT.

 anti-summary: 
 ``We are still searching the building ... but so far we have found 60 dead,'' Goteborg police official Jan Edmundson said on national radio. The injured toll was lowered slightly to 180, but included seven people who needed treatment at emergency burn centers. The cause of the fire was not immediately known. Goteborg is about 500 kilometers (300 miles) southwest of the capital, Stockholm. The crowd in the second story of the building contained mostly 13 to 18 year olds celebrating Halloween and a holiday weekend. ``A night full of expectation, happiness over extra leave from school and high spirits in anticipation of a weekend was brutally and suddenly changed into a tragedy of incomprehensible dimensions,'' the Goteborg city council said in a statement. ``Goteborg is today a city in shock. The Goteborg rescue services also brought city buses into service to help transport the injured. Olin said the rescue service inspected the building in April 1997 and ``fulfilled all possible demands as far as emergency exits and the possibility for fast evacuation. They maybe don't have their own identification, but have that of a friend who is a year older.

 textrank summary:
  A fire turned a Swedish dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween revelers into a deathtrap, killing at least 60 people and injuring about 180. The fire was the deadliest in modern Swedish history since 1978, when 20 people died in the town of Boraas. He said he raced in and pulled to safety several people, including a friend. ``I saw about 10 people in windows who just jumped. The dance was on the second floor. About 300 or 400 people were inside, police said. The cause of the fire was not immediately known. Olin said there were signs that the fire was set. The fire broke out about midnight (2300 GMT Thursday) in building of the local Macedonian Association, which organized the dance. Everybody was trying to get out and people trampled on each other on the way to the exit.
