summary: 
  A fire turned a dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween revelers into a deathtrap, killing 65 people and injuring 157 others in Sweden's second-largest city. The fast-spreading fire that broke out just a few minutes before midnight Thursday gutted the building and left rescuers facing a hideous scene that local rescue service leader Lennart Olin likened to a ``gas chamber. '' The cause of the fire had not been determined as of Friday evening. Although an estimated 400 people, most aged 13 to 18, were at the dance on the building's second floor, the facility had approval for a maximum capacity of 150, said Hans Carlsson, the detective leading the disaster investigation. In 1978, 20 people died in a fire at a hotel in the town of Boraas. Fire officials were alerted at 11:43 p.m. (2243 GMT) Thursday and had a fire truck at the scene four minutes later, rescue workers said. ``The fact that it spread so fast indicates that it was not a normal fire,'' he said. Goteborg is about 500 kilometers (300 miles) southwest of the capital, Stockholm. '' Prime Minister Goeran Persson visited the fire site at midday and King Carl XVI Gustav made a statement of condolence. '' Ambulances were called in from several nearby communities.

 anti-summary: 
  A fire turned a dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween revelers into a deathtrap, killing 65 people and injuring 157 others in Sweden's second-largest city. In 1978, 20 people died in a fire at a hotel in the town of Boraas. Police said the dead or injured represented at least 19 nationalities, including Somalis, Ethiopians, Iraqis, Iranians and Swedes, along with people from current and former Yugoslavia and unspecified Latin American countries. That person was not immdiately identified. ``I saw about 10 people in windows who just jumped. The blaze was already consuming the building. The crowd in the second story of the building contained mostly 13 to 18 year olds celebrating Halloween and a holiday weekend. ``Goteborg is today a city in shock. Jamal Fawz, 15, told TT that he was out on the dance floor when the blaze started with about 400 people inside. Everybody was trying to get out and people trampled on each other on the way to the exit.

 textrank summary:
  A fire turned a dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween revelers into a deathtrap, killing 65 people and injuring 157 others in Sweden's second-largest city. '' The cause of the fire had not been determined as of Friday evening. In 1978, 20 people died in a fire at a hotel in the town of Boraas. The building did not have sprinklers and was not required to have them, officials said. Fire officials were alerted at 11:43 p.m. (2243 GMT) Thursday and had a fire truck at the scene four minutes later, rescue workers said. Olin said there were indications that the fire could have been set. The crowd in the second story of the building contained mostly 13 to 18 year olds celebrating Halloween and a holiday weekend. ``Goteborg is today a city in shock. '' Prime Minister Goeran Persson visited the fire site at midday and King Carl XVI Gustav made a statement of condolence. Everybody was trying to get out and people trampled on each other on the way to the exit.
