summary: 
  A panicky telephone call in poor Swedish was the first word that authorities got of a fire racing through a dance hall crowded with immigrant teen-agers, delaying fire squads' response to the blaze that killed 60 and injured 162, officials said Saturday. Per-Olof Ortarsen of Goteborg's emergency services line said the call was so hard to understand that it took three minutes for workers to figure out what was going on and where to send fire trucks. The first fire trucks and rescue squads were on the scene six minutes after the call was received, Ortarsen said at a news conference. On Saturday, hundreds of people stood quietly outside the gutted building amid flowers and candles as they attempted to come to grips with catastrophe. The cards' inscriptions were brief _ ``I will see you in heaven,'' ``We miss you'' _ and the people who stood reading them also had few words. There's nothing else we can do,'' said Caroline Ericsson, who didn't know any of the victims. By showing up, he said, he wanted to show the victims' relatives and friends that spirit can help them pull through despair. Consolation is enough,'' he said, as people nearby cast uneasy glances at his scars. The fire's quick spread has prompted speculation that it could have been set, but officials also say the explosive spread could have been because the fire had been burning undetected for some time. Identifying the dead was a wrackingly slow process, forcing relatives and friends already exhausted with dread to wait for hours at hospitals.

 anti-summary: 
 Per-Olof Ortarsen of Goteborg's emergency services line said the call was so hard to understand that it took three minutes for workers to figure out what was going on and where to send fire trucks. The first fire trucks and rescue squads were on the scene six minutes after the call was received, Ortarsen said at a news conference. I think about them. Many of those injured in the blaze may have to endure similar shocked looks the rest of their lives. Authorities say the explosive fire quickly raised the temperature in the overcrowded hall to 600 degrees (1,100 F). The cause of the fire that broke out just before midnight Thursday remains under investigation. Licensed to hold a maximum of 150, the hall held at least 250 and perhaps as many as 400 when the fire hit. Only 18 of the dead had been identified by midday Saturday. ``The identification is hard because they have no driver's licenses or other documents _ they were so young,'' said Kerstin Einarsson of Sahlgrenska Hospital, the largest in the city of 435,000 residents about 300 miles (500 kilometers) west of Stockholm. The worst previous Swedish fire disaster in modern history was in 1978 in Boraas, when 20 people died in a hotel fire. 

 textrank summary:
  A panicky telephone call in poor Swedish was the first word that authorities got of a fire racing through a dance hall crowded with immigrant teen-agers, delaying fire squads' response to the blaze that killed 60 and injured 162, officials said Saturday. The first fire trucks and rescue squads were on the scene six minutes after the call was received, Ortarsen said at a news conference. ''We could have saved more young people if only police hadn't stopped us,'' Mohanned Hussein was quoted as saying by the newspaper Expressen. Authorities say the explosive fire quickly raised the temperature in the overcrowded hall to 600 degrees (1,100 F). The cause of the fire that broke out just before midnight Thursday remains under investigation. Witness accounts have varied widely, with some reporting smoke coming from the cellar and others saying the fire appeared to start in the ceiling of the dance hall on the building's second floor. The fire's quick spread has prompted speculation that it could have been set, but officials also say the explosive spread could have been because the fire had been burning undetected for some time. What's known is that the hall was packed far beyond its capacity. Licensed to hold a maximum of 150, the hall held at least 250 and perhaps as many as 400 when the fire hit. The worst previous Swedish fire disaster in modern history was in 1978 in Boraas, when 20 people died in a hotel fire. 
