summary: 
  A fire turned a dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween revelers into a deathtrap, killing at least 60 people and injuring about 180 in Sweden's second-largest city. The fast-spreading fire completely gutted the building and left rescuers facing a hideous scene that local rescue service leader Lennart Olin likened to a ``gas chamber. '' Although an estimated 400 people, most aged 13 to 18, were at the dance on the building's second floor, the facility had approval for a maximum capacity of 150, said Hans Carlsson, the detective leading the disaster investigation. The fire, at the facilities of the Macedonian Association local immigrant group, was the deadliest in modern Swedish history. In 1978, 20 people died in a fire at a hotel in the town of Boraas. At a news conference Friday morning, police said most victims choked to death on smoke and poisonous gases; 59 bodies were found at the scene and the 60th victim died at a hospital, officials said. Fire officials were alerted at 11:43 p.m. (2243 GMT) Thursday and had a fire truck at the scene four minutes later, rescue workers said. ``The fact that it spread so fast indicates that it was not a normal fire,'' he said. Goteborg is about 500 kilometers (300 miles) southwest of the capital, Stockholm. '' Ambulances were called in from several nearby communities.

 anti-summary: 
  A fire turned a dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween revelers into a deathtrap, killing at least 60 people and injuring about 180 in Sweden's second-largest city. In 1978, 20 people died in a fire at a hotel in the town of Boraas. Police said the list of injured included Somalis and people from current and former Yugoslavia. ``I saw about 10 people in windows who just jumped. The blaze was already consuming the building. ``It was a panic,'' Goteborg police spokesman Bengt Staaf said, with youths trampling each other to get out, and other youths scuffling with police to get in and attempt to help friends. About 180 people were taken to hospitals with injuries, and about 20 were in intensive care. The crowd in the second story of the building contained mostly 13 to 18 year olds celebrating Halloween and a holiday weekend. ``Goteborg is today a city in shock. Everybody was trying to get out and people trampled on each other on the way to the exit.

 textrank summary:
  A fire turned a dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween revelers into a deathtrap, killing at least 60 people and injuring about 180 in Sweden's second-largest city. In 1978, 20 people died in a fire at a hotel in the town of Boraas. He said he raced in and pulled to safety several people, including a friend. Fire officials were alerted at 11:43 p.m. (2243 GMT) Thursday and had a fire truck at the scene four minutes later, rescue workers said. The cause of the fire was not immediately known, although officials said it apparently began with an explosion. Olin said there were indications that the fire could have been set. About 180 people were taken to hospitals with injuries, and about 20 were in intensive care. ``Goteborg is today a city in shock. '' Prime Minister Goeran Persson visited the fire site at midday and King Carl XVI Gustav made a statement of condolence. Everybody was trying to get out and people trampled on each other on the way to the exit.
