summary: 
  Hundreds of teen-agers jammed into an upstairs hall planning to dance the night away, but by the time the sun rose Friday they were dead, clinging to life in hospitals or weeping in disbelief at a fire that killed 67 of them. Police said another 173 people were injured, 20 of them severely, in the explosive fire that engulfed the plain brick two-story building just before midnight Thursday and turned a boisterous disco dance into a screaming terror in a matter of moments. Bent metal bars on some of the hall's windows showed the panic-fueled strength that the teen-agers, many of them immigrants, exerted as they sought ways out of the hall, which with some 400 people inside was crowded to more than twice its legal capacity. Below the second-floor windows lay stray shoes, broken glass and bloody blankets used to wrap those who may or may not have lived. ``I've been crying all day. I haven't been able to sleep. I'm alive, so why should I sleep when my friends are dead,'' 17-year-old Alina Turk said as she stood outside the ruined building Friday afternoon. '' Prime Minister Goeran Persson travelled from Stockholm to the fire site, first laying flowers outside and walking into the gutted wreck. ``The floor was full of shoes and boots, the same kind of boots my own children wear,'' he said. They wept, they embraced, and some looked around nervously, apparently not knowing how to behave in a church.

 anti-summary: 
  Hundreds of teen-agers jammed into an upstairs hall planning to dance the night away, but by the time the sun rose Friday they were dead, clinging to life in hospitals or weeping in disbelief at a fire that killed 67 of them. Police said another 173 people were injured, 20 of them severely, in the explosive fire that engulfed the plain brick two-story building just before midnight Thursday and turned a boisterous disco dance into a screaming terror in a matter of moments. She said she had been at the dance and two male friends of hers died. Although Hersi, like many of the youths at the dance, believes the police and firemen were slow, authorities said the first fire trucks were on the scene within five minutes of getting the alarm. But the fire spread so fast that even an instant response would likely have been too slow. The cause of the fire had not been determined as of Friday evening. Fire Brigade Engineer Bo Wahlstroem said the flames' quick, raging spread could indicate arson, or that the fire had burned undetected for a time before exploding. The fire destroyed the building, whose second floor, where the dance took place, was rented by the local Macedonian immigrant association in Sweden's second-largest city. The blaze, the worst fire disaster in Sweden's modern history, shocked a country renowned for its smooth calmness. '' Prime Minister Goeran Persson travelled from Stockholm to the fire site, first laying flowers outside and walking into the gutted wreck.

 textrank summary:
  Hundreds of teen-agers jammed into an upstairs hall planning to dance the night away, but by the time the sun rose Friday they were dead, clinging to life in hospitals or weeping in disbelief at a fire that killed 67 of them. I haven't been able to sleep. She said she had been at the dance and two male friends of hers died. Although Hersi, like many of the youths at the dance, believes the police and firemen were slow, authorities said the first fire trucks were on the scene within five minutes of getting the alarm. The cause of the fire had not been determined as of Friday evening. Fire Brigade Engineer Bo Wahlstroem said the flames' quick, raging spread could indicate arson, or that the fire had burned undetected for a time before exploding. The fire destroyed the building, whose second floor, where the dance took place, was rented by the local Macedonian immigrant association in Sweden's second-largest city. Some were able to make the wait in rooms off-limits to journalists, but many had to wait in corridors, crying and teen-agers hurry in and out of rooms as they looked for their pals. The blaze, the worst fire disaster in Sweden's modern history, shocked a country renowned for its smooth calmness. '' Prime Minister Goeran Persson travelled from Stockholm to the fire site, first laying flowers outside and walking into the gutted wreck.
