summary: 
 Earlier in the day, Noren had said it was a ''50-50'' chance that the fire was arson, prompting wide speculation that authorities had tracked down new clues. Per-Olof Ortarsen of Goteborg's emergency services line said the call was so hard to understand that it took three minutes for workers to figure out what was going on and where to send fire trucks. But the minutes of delay felt endless to those caught in the terror of the fire and survivors have spoken angrily of what they saw as a slow and even obstructive response. The cards' inscriptions were brief _ ``I will see you in heaven,'' ``We miss you'' _ and the people who stood reading them also had few words. There's nothing else we can do,'' said Caroline Ericsson, who didn't know any of the fire's victims. ``I can't give them hope. Consolation is enough,'' he said, as people nearby cast uneasy glances at his scars. Licensed to hold a maximum of 150, the hall held at least 250 and perhaps as many as 400 when the fire hit. One of the two exit stairways was blocked by fire and there were conflicting statements from witnesses as to whether the fire came up the stairs from a lower level, or whether it spread there after breaking out in the second-floor rooms. The worst previous fire disaster in modern Sweden was in 1978 in Boraas, when 20 people died in a hotel fire.

 anti-summary: 
 Earlier in the day, Noren had said it was a ''50-50'' chance that the fire was arson, prompting wide speculation that authorities had tracked down new clues. The first call alerting authorities to the fire was made in heavily accented Swedish and that, combined with noise and the caller's distress, delayed the fire squads' response by several minutes. Per-Olof Ortarsen of Goteborg's emergency services line said the call was so hard to understand that it took three minutes for workers to figure out what was going on and where to send fire trucks. The first fire trucks and rescue squads were on the scene six minutes after the call was received, Ortarsen told a news conference. But the minutes of delay felt endless to those caught in the terror of the fire and survivors have spoken angrily of what they saw as a slow and even obstructive response. I think about them. Authorities say the explosive fire quickly raised the temperature in the hall to 600 degrees (1,100 F). Licensed to hold a maximum of 150, the hall held at least 250 and perhaps as many as 400 when the fire hit. One of the two exit stairways was blocked by fire and there were conflicting statements from witnesses as to whether the fire came up the stairs from a lower level, or whether it spread there after breaking out in the second-floor rooms. The worst previous fire disaster in modern Sweden was in 1978 in Boraas, when 20 people died in a hotel fire.

 textrank summary:
 Earlier in the day, Noren had said it was a ''50-50'' chance that the fire was arson, prompting wide speculation that authorities had tracked down new clues. As investigators worked to find the cause, examiners identified another 22 of the bodies, bringing the total to 40, and officials said 49 people were released from hospital. Of the 162 people who suffered non-fatal injuries in the Thursday night fire, 76 remain hospitalized. The first call alerting authorities to the fire was made in heavily accented Swedish and that, combined with noise and the caller's distress, delayed the fire squads' response by several minutes. The first fire trucks and rescue squads were on the scene six minutes after the call was received, Ortarsen told a news conference. ``We could have saved more young people if only police hadn't stopped us,'' Mohanned Hussein was quoted as saying by the newspaper Expressen. Authorities say the explosive fire quickly raised the temperature in the hall to 600 degrees (1,100 F). Licensed to hold a maximum of 150, the hall held at least 250 and perhaps as many as 400 when the fire hit. One of the two exit stairways was blocked by fire and there were conflicting statements from witnesses as to whether the fire came up the stairs from a lower level, or whether it spread there after breaking out in the second-floor rooms. The worst previous fire disaster in modern Sweden was in 1978 in Boraas, when 20 people died in a hotel fire.
