summary: 
  The Taliban's chief justice accused the United States on Wednesday of looking for an ``excuse'' to launch another missile attack on his war-shattered homeland. On Aug. 20 the United States retaliated by firing Tomahawk missiles at suspected terrorist camps in eastern Afghanistan, killing 26 people. They cite Afghan tradition, which demands the host guarantee his guest protection. So far Saqib says he has no evidence of bin Laden's involvement in terrorist activities. Saqib said his inquiry will wind up on Nov. 20 and if there is no evidence against bin Laden the case will be closed _ at least for the Taliban. ``It is too shameful for America who is now seen by all that world to have no reason to go after bin Laden.

 anti-summary: 
 On Aug. 20 the United States retaliated by firing Tomahawk missiles at suspected terrorist camps in eastern Afghanistan, killing 26 people. ``America is looking for an excuse to fire more rockets on our dear Afghanistan and that excuse is bin Laden,'' Saqib said. ``America fears its shadow ... in every part of the world it is afraid and sees every danger connected to bin Laden,'' he said in an interview in the Afghan capital of Kabul. In Afghanistan, bin Laden is considered an honored guest by his Taliban hosts. They cite Afghan tradition, which demands the host guarantee his guest protection. ``Bin Laden is not a sinful man ... America has been silent ... they have given no evidence,'' he said.

 textrank summary:
 And that excuse is Osama bin Laden, the man Washington calls Enemy No. ``America is looking for an excuse to fire more rockets on our dear Afghanistan and that excuse is bin Laden,'' Saqib said. Washington, which has posted a dlrs 5 million reward for bin Laden's arrest, hasn't ruled out further attacks on Afghanistan. In Afghanistan, bin Laden is considered an honored guest by his Taliban hosts. So far Saqib says he has no evidence of bin Laden's involvement in terrorist activities. The Taliban have refused to turn over bin Laden to the United States, but they say if there is evidence they will try him under Islamic law.
