summary: 
  In modern Russia, the crime was so common as to be mundane. Two thugs, armed with machine pistols and silencers, stalked and killed a powerful figure, then slipped away into the night. ``This is impossible to tolerate any longer,'' said Grigory Yavlinsky, the leader of Yabloko, another reform-oriented party. We cannot go on living as though everything is running as usual. A team of assailants _ police believe it was a man and a woman _ appeared behind them and opened fire. He had regained consciousness but still could not speak Sunday. Until now, the most notorious of the killings was that of popular television host Vladislav Litsyev, who was shot outside his Moscow home in 1995. St. Petersburg has been especially plagued. There was, in much of the reaction to Starovoitova's death, the sense that a line had been crossed. '' It is too early to know where the recriminations and political maneuvering will lead.

 anti-summary: 
 Police vowed to catch them and politicians expressed outrage. Usually, that would be the end of the story. ``This is impossible to tolerate any longer,'' said Grigory Yavlinsky, the leader of Yabloko, another reform-oriented party. Starovoitova, shot three times in the head, collapsed and died instantly, authorities said. Police have recovered two guns, and are hoping that Linkov can provide a description of the killers. There is no indication that anyone attempted to carry out an assassination of Berezovsky. But, in more characteristic fashion, her death also led to a round of political finger-pointing. Historian Dmitry Likachyov, one of the nation's most revered and trusted figures, said her killing seemed to signal the ``outburst of a new Red Terror. ``But,'' he added, ``I would not like the deputies who sat on the same bench with Galina Starovoitova in the State Duma ... to turn this into a political show. '' It is too early to know where the recriminations and political maneuvering will lead.

 textrank summary:
 Police vowed to catch them and politicians expressed outrage. '' Starovoitova, a member of parliament and a leader of the liberal Russia's Democratic Choice party, was walking up the stairs of her apartment building in St. Petersburg with a young aide Friday evening. Police have recovered two guns, and are hoping that Linkov can provide a description of the killers. But Yeltsin's order was the equivalent of U.S. President Bill Clinton ordering an investigation into whether the FBI was plotting to kill Microsoft chairman Bill Gates. Yet, as remarkable as that news was, it has been vastly overshadowed by the death of Starovoitova. Television news since her death has carried reports of little else. There was, in much of the reaction to Starovoitova's death, the sense that a line had been crossed. '' By late Saturday, the name-calling had gone so far that Interior Minister Sergei Stepashin called a news conference to say there was no evidence that the Communist speaker of the Duma, Gennady Seleznyov, was involved in the killing. Seleznyov went on television to say he was saddened by her death. For now, the only thing certain is the Starovoitova has become the latest in a long line of Russian martyrs. 
