summary: 
 The stirring tribute to Starovoitova, a feisty liberal whose killing remains a mystery, was indicative of the depth of national feeling over her death. ``To stop us, they want to scare us. ``Ordinary people should honor her memory, and make sure this never happens again,'' said one man, Vadim Olshevsky, the manager of a construction company. '' Among speakers at the service were former Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin and Yuri Yarov, President Boris Yeltsin's first deputy chief of staff, who represented the president at the service. '' One national television channel turned over its daylong programming to funeral coverage and a memorial tribute. But as outrage mounted over her killing, the government announced that she would be interred in the Alexander Nevsky Monastery in the city's center following the funeral at the Ethnography Museum. But a detective later said that investigators had learned nothing ``serious'' from Linkov, according to the Interfax news agency, and there were no further details about whether the suspects were still in custody. Igor Kozhevnikov, head of investigations for the Interior Ministry, told Interfax on Tuesday that he was confident the case would be solved. ``It will take time,'' he said, but added that investigators ``have tips, they have something to work on. Russian politicians and newspapers have speculated wildly about political motives for the killing, but police have said they have no idea why someone would have wanted her dead.

 anti-summary: 
 ``We will fulfill the goals she sacrificed her life for. '' Hundreds of people, including many of the country's most prominent political figures, packed the grand Marble Hall of St. Petersburg's Ethnography Museum for the funeral. Outside, several thousand more mourners stood in the cold, waiting for the service to end so they could file in and pay their respects. But, he added bitterly, ``There's little hope of that in our country. ``The shooting in St. Petersburg is a grim lesson for the whole of Russia,'' Yarov said. ``Irrespective of real motives for that murder, a crime of this magnitude is a political act, and society should know all the truth about it. The aide, 27-year-old Ruslan Linkov, was seriously wounded, but has been able to provide some description of the shooting to police. Acting on his information, investigators rounded up several suspects, officials said Monday. No one was hurt. It was not clear whether the shooting was related to Starovoitova's death. 

 textrank summary:
 They will never succeed,'' former Deputy Prime Minister Anatoly Chubais said at the funeral for Starovoitova. '' Hundreds of people, including many of the country's most prominent political figures, packed the grand Marble Hall of St. Petersburg's Ethnography Museum for the funeral. Outside, several thousand more mourners stood in the cold, waiting for the service to end so they could file in and pay their respects. '' Among speakers at the service were former Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin and Yuri Yarov, President Boris Yeltsin's first deputy chief of staff, who represented the president at the service. Her political party, Russia's Democratic Choice, called on all Russians to turn out their lights in her memory for three minutes at 8 p.m. Tuesday. The aide, 27-year-old Ruslan Linkov, was seriously wounded, but has been able to provide some description of the shooting to police. Acting on his information, investigators rounded up several suspects, officials said Monday. Igor Kozhevnikov, head of investigations for the Interior Ministry, told Interfax on Tuesday that he was confident the case would be solved. '' Authorities are acting on the assumption that Starovoitova's death was a contract hit, a common event in post-Soviet Russia. Police said someone fired shots at the apartment of a member of the St. Petersburg legislature Monday night, Interfax said.
