summary: 
 They have discovered that, despite a huge international food aid program over the past three years, severe malnutrition is widespread among toddlers at crucial stages of brain development, suggesting that this generation's physical and mental abilities will not develop normally and that the losses can never be recovered. People cope year after year, and probably a lot drop off. '' For three weeks this fall, crews led by foreign scientists were finally permitted to fan out across North Korea to conduct the first random sample nutritional survey of children, providing by far the most solid data on the crisis. ``Even if the situation improves, it is unlikely to improve to the degree that the country will fully recover from what we saw,'' said Judit Katona-Apte, a senior program adviser for the World Food Program. None of the aid groups has been able to study the issue of hunger-related deaths, and the North Koreans have not released relevant figures, although most experts agree that probably more than one million and perhaps as many as three million have died prematurely since the food shortages began. ``We have reason to believe that many people are suffering and that the elderly are a neglected age group that is just getting weaker and weaker,'' Swedlund said. And, in any case, the hospitals lack the food and proper nutritional supplements. He said that even in hospitals, sanitation and water purification systems were virtually nonexistent, because the country lacks chlorine for purification and fuel to run water pumps. With few other options, vast numbers of North Koreans have resorted to eating ``substitute food,'' hard cakes and noodles made from a mix of nutritional plants, like soybeans and sweet potatoes, combined with indigestible filler, like cornstalks and straw. He also rejected the notion that the North Korean military is stealing donated food, a charge leveled by the organization Doctors Without Borders, when it angrily pulled out of North Korea last summer to protest the many restrictions on groups working there.

 anti-summary: 
 Past assessments of the magnitude of the disaster in the country of 23 million are considered flawed because they were based on interviews with a small number of North Korean refugees who had fled into China. People cope year after year, and probably a lot drop off. Thirty percent of 1-year-olds suffered from moderate to severe malnutrition. In India and Bangladesh, pockets of severe poverty alternate with pockets of relative plenty, while in North Korea the whole country is to some degree underfed. ``There were these two children sitting at a desk who were obviously severely malnourished _ they were so thin and they had patchy hair,'' she said. Travel is still restricted. Still, the number of counties open to the workers has increased steadily, and freedom to move about has improved. ``But that doesn't mean it can't exist. We're still really limited in what we can see. '' Swedlund said it was unlikely that the counties still closed to foreigners were markedly different from the open ones.

 textrank summary:
 ``There is a very close relationship between the problems caused by the lack of food and a health sector that's in very bad shape. That figure is higher than in any country in East Asia and puts North Korea among the world's worst 10 countries in terms of malnutrition. While that 16 percent figure is not quite as bad as that of India and Bangladesh, the worst in the world with an 18 percent malnutrition rate, experts say that North Korea's number in some ways understates the problem. After three years of food donations, many foreign aid workers in the country have remarked that children in nurseries and kindergartens are looking better _ but that their older siblings are failing. There are now more than 100 Westerners living in Pyongyang, the capital city, and many say the long-term hunger is readily apparent there. And, in any case, the hospitals lack the food and proper nutritional supplements. ``This now constitutes 40 percent of food intake,'' Swedlund said. ``It's becoming a regular part of the food basket. '' Doctors in North Korea say many people suffer from stomachaches after eating this partly indigestible material, he said, but added, ``If you're very hungry, it fills your stomach. Travel is still restricted.
