summary: 
 In doing so, the Malaysian prime minister, Mahathir Mohamad, in effect slammed the door on the global economy that President Clinton and the other leaders are coming here to champion. '' Critics said it was predictable that capital controls would be a short-term tonic to Malaysia's economy. With Mahathir leading the campaign, the cause of capital controls will have a fiery advocate who has a penchant for getting under the skin of Westerners. Policy-makers in the United States have expressed fears that if Malaysia's gambit is seen as successful, other economically weakened countries in the region, like Indonesia, might be tempted to try it. So far, Indonesian officials have said they would stick to the recovery plan devised by the International Monetary Fund, which stresses economic austerity and open markets. But officials in Japan have expressed some sympathy for Mahathir's policies, while Paul Krugman, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has advocated using them as an emergency measure. While foreign direct investment fell in September _ to $142 million, from an average monthly rate of $321 million for the period from January through September _ it did not dry up completely. Analysts liken the situation to buying an insurance policy for a disaster that has come and gone. More important, the capital controls are slowing down much-needed corporate and banking reforms. ``Then the whole question of Mahathir and his leadership will remain an issue.

 anti-summary: 
 So far, Indonesian officials have said they would stick to the recovery plan devised by the International Monetary Fund, which stresses economic austerity and open markets. In addition to growing foreign reserves, he said Malaysia had improved its trade balance and revived consumer purchases of durable goods. So the consumers who are buying new cars and home appliances are merely dipping into their savings, which means the buying spree will end when their savings are depleted. ``There is a case to be made for the temporary imposition of capital controls, but to avert a crisis, not to respond to one,'' Jomo said. Analysts liken the situation to buying an insurance policy for a disaster that has come and gone. On Monday, during the trial of Malaysia's former deputy prime minister, Anwar Ibrahim, on charges of corruption and sex-related crimes, Anwar angrily denied Mahathir's claim that he had approved the bailout. Anwar's sensational trial is a reminder that Mahathir's economic policies cannot be disentangled from politics. They precipitated the current recession in every country. '' But Mahathir's treatment of Anwar has stirred anger and sparked growing social unrest in Malaysia. ``Then the whole question of Mahathir and his leadership will remain an issue.

 textrank summary:
 Now, though, Mahathir's allies are marshaling new economic data that they say indicate that capital controls are breathing new life into the country's moribund economy. ``It's nice to be able to say that since we adopted capital controls, the economy has improved,'' said Zainal Aznam Yusof, the deputy director of the Institute of Strategic and International Studies, a research organization here that helped draft the policies. Because the country is sheltered from the vagaries of capital flows and currency fluctuations, they said, the government had been able to ease interest rates and encourage consumer spending. With capital controls as protection, Yusof said Malaysia was picking up the pieces of its shattered economy. With the Asian crisis more than a year old, much of the foreign capital that was in the country has already gone. The critics said Mahathir had spooked would-be investors without even locking in the ones who used to be here. ``There is a case to be made for the temporary imposition of capital controls, but to avert a crisis, not to respond to one,'' Jomo said. Analysts liken the situation to buying an insurance policy for a disaster that has come and gone. More important, the capital controls are slowing down much-needed corporate and banking reforms. '' In that regard, at least, the leaders who converge on Kuala Lumpur in two weeks will be able to identify with their embattled host. 
