summary: 
  The chances for a new, strictly secular government in Turkey faded Wednesday when a potential coalition partner insisted on giving the Islamic party a share of power. But Mrs. Ciller said Wednesday she would not join forces with Yilmaz, whose government collapsed Nov. 25 over a mafia scandal. ``We do not oppose Mr. Ecevit's premiership. It was not clear what Ecevit's next move would be. He might try to form a fragile minority coalition. Demirel could then choose any member of parliament to head the government until elections in April. 

 anti-summary: 
  The chances for a new, strictly secular government in Turkey faded Wednesday when a potential coalition partner insisted on giving the Islamic party a share of power. The military, self-appointed guardians of Turkey's secular system, is adamantly opposed to the inclusion of Islamic Virtue, the largest party in parliament. Ecevit already has the support of her arch-rival, outgoing Premier Mesut Yilmaz, head of the other center-right party. But Mrs. Ciller said Wednesday she would not join forces with Yilmaz, whose government collapsed Nov. 25 over a mafia scandal. We will support him, but only if all parties represented in Parliament are included,'' Mrs. Ciller said. He might also admit defeat and return the task of forming the government to President Suleyman Demirel.

 textrank summary:
  The chances for a new, strictly secular government in Turkey faded Wednesday when a potential coalition partner insisted on giving the Islamic party a share of power. The military, self-appointed guardians of Turkey's secular system, is adamantly opposed to the inclusion of Islamic Virtue, the largest party in parliament. But Mrs. Ciller said Wednesday she would not join forces with Yilmaz, whose government collapsed Nov. 25 over a mafia scandal. Instead, she reiterated her demand for a government that would include Virtue. ``We do not oppose Mr. Ecevit's premiership. Demirel could then choose any member of parliament to head the government until elections in April. 
