summary: 
  Armored personnel carriers were deployed Tuesday around the convention center where U.S. President Bill Clinton will address 1,500 Palestinian delegates next week. U.S. Secret Service agents have already arrived in Gaza to work with their Palestinian counterparts on how to protect Clinton during his first visit to Palestinian areas. ``There is cooperation with the American security people. However, Hamas has carried out more than a dozen suicide bombings in Israel in an attempt to bring peace talks with Israel to a halt. ``The Palestinian police are ready to protect President Clinton here in Gaza or in Bethlehem,'' Jabali said, referring to Clinton's expected visit next Tuesday to the Church of the Nativity in the biblical West Bank town of Bethlehem In Jerusalem, Clinton's entourage of 1,200 people will take over the Jerusalem Hilton, at a cost of half a million dollars.

 anti-summary: 
  Armored personnel carriers were deployed Tuesday around the convention center where U.S. President Bill Clinton will address 1,500 Palestinian delegates next week. U.S. Secret Service agents have already arrived in Gaza to work with their Palestinian counterparts on how to protect Clinton during his first visit to Palestinian areas. The Americans have their own procedures as well,'' said the Palestinian police chief, Ghazi Jabali. Four armored personnel were parked at the corners of the convention center, with members of Arafat's elite bodyguard unit, known as Force 17, sitting on the vehicles. ``The Palestinian police are ready to protect President Clinton here in Gaza or in Bethlehem,'' Jabali said, referring to Clinton's expected visit next Tuesday to the Church of the Nativity in the biblical West Bank town of Bethlehem In Jerusalem, Clinton's entourage of 1,200 people will take over the Jerusalem Hilton, at a cost of half a million dollars.

 textrank summary:
  Armored personnel carriers were deployed Tuesday around the convention center where U.S. President Bill Clinton will address 1,500 Palestinian delegates next week. U.S. Secret Service agents have already arrived in Gaza to work with their Palestinian counterparts on how to protect Clinton during his first visit to Palestinian areas. ``There is cooperation with the American security people. Streets around the center are to be closed days before the Clinton visit. U.S. security agents, in turn, have given their Palestinian counterparts sophisticated explosives detection equipment.
