summary: 
  A defiant Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Saturday that Israel would continue to build Jewish neighborhoods throughout Jerusalem, including at a controversial site in the traditionally Arab sector of the city. '' Har Homa is the site of a planned Jewish neighborhood in traditionally Arab east Jerusalem. Netanyahu's Cabinet delayed action on the new peace accord following Friday's suicide bombing at a Jerusalem market, and his remarks about building on Har Homa may be seen as a provocation by the Palestinians at a politically sensitive moment. U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright expects Israel's Cabinet to ratify the new peace accord within a few days despite the market bombing, a television report said Saturday. ``The United States understands the delay by a day or two but expects the agreement to be approved soon,'' Albright told Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu by phone, Channel Two reported. One of Israel's key demands is that the Palestinians do more to fight attacks by Islamic militants against Israeli targets. ``I'm proud, but I'm sad because I loved my son. A ring of young men wearing skullcaps joined hands and danced, and rabbis spoke of the ``miracle'' that had saved those shopping in the market at the time of the attack.

 anti-summary: 
 Netanyahu's Cabinet delayed action on the new peace accord following Friday's suicide bombing at a Jerusalem market, and his remarks about building on Har Homa may be seen as a provocation by the Palestinians at a politically sensitive moment. Palestinian security sources and the families of the dead bombers had already identified them as Islamic Jihad activists. The Palestinians, however, said the two bombers had come from Israeli-controlled areas and that Israel thus bore at least part of the security responsibility for the attack. The Israeli military said it could not confirm the suicide bombers' identities and hometowns, but they were disclosed by Palestinian security officials and also reported by Palestinian media. ``I didn't raise him to lose him like that,'' said Mohammed Zughayar, the 54-year-old father of Yusef Ali Mohammed Zughayar, 22. '' The family of Suleiman Musa Dahayneh, 24, said he had been married for three months to Zughayar's sister, Basma. They met when she was visiting her brother, who was in prison with Dahayneh, the family said. A ring of young men wearing skullcaps joined hands and danced, and rabbis spoke of the ``miracle'' that had saved those shopping in the market at the time of the attack.

 textrank summary:
 '' Har Homa is the site of a planned Jewish neighborhood in traditionally Arab east Jerusalem. Groundbreaking at the site led to angry Palestinian protests and a breakdown of peace talks in March 1997. U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright expects Israel's Cabinet to ratify the new peace accord within a few days despite the market bombing, a television report said Saturday. The radical group Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility Saturday for the market bombing and vowed more attacks to try to block the new peace accord. Palestinian political leaders said Israel should not use Friday's suicide bombing, which killed the two assailants and wounded 21 Israelis, as an excuse to stop the peace process. The Palestinians, however, said the two bombers had come from Israeli-controlled areas and that Israel thus bore at least part of the security responsibility for the attack. '' The family of Suleiman Musa Dahayneh, 24, said he had been married for three months to Zughayar's sister, Basma. They met when she was visiting her brother, who was in prison with Dahayneh, the family said.
