summary: 
  The New York Times said in an editorial on Saturday, Oct. 10: Just days before heading to the United States for critical negotiations with Palestinian leaders, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu jolted the Middle East peace effort with the appointment of Ariel Sharon as Israeli foreign minister. Much will depend on whether Netanyahu can control his strong-willed aide, a goal that has eluded other Israeli leaders. He still bears the burden of his role in the massacre of hundreds of Palestinians by Christian militiamen in Lebanon in 1982. But such behavior is not likely to be the first impulse of a man who has famously said he would never shake hands with Arafat. The first order of business when the two sides get together next week outside Washington is to wrap up negotiations over the further withdrawal of Israeli forces from the West Bank coupled with security guarantees from the Palestinians. Sharon can show statesmanship by helping Netanyahu close this deal, even though it is opposed by the Israeli settlers whose cause Sharon has long championed. Success in these talks would clear the way for the last and most difficult negotiations about a permanent settlement, including the shape and status of a Palestinian state and the future of Jerusalem.

 anti-summary: 
  The New York Times said in an editorial on Saturday, Oct. 10: Just days before heading to the United States for critical negotiations with Palestinian leaders, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu jolted the Middle East peace effort with the appointment of Ariel Sharon as Israeli foreign minister. Unfortunately, he is also capable of wrecking the entire peace effort. An Israeli inquiry found he was indirectly responsible for the killings at the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps. But such behavior is not likely to be the first impulse of a man who has famously said he would never shake hands with Arafat. The first order of business when the two sides get together next week outside Washington is to wrap up negotiations over the further withdrawal of Israeli forces from the West Bank coupled with security guarantees from the Palestinians. Success in these talks would clear the way for the last and most difficult negotiations about a permanent settlement, including the shape and status of a Palestinian state and the future of Jerusalem. If Sharon ever hopes to overcome the shame of Sabra and Shatila, he must become a force for peace in the Middle East. 

 textrank summary:
  The New York Times said in an editorial on Saturday, Oct. 10: Just days before heading to the United States for critical negotiations with Palestinian leaders, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu jolted the Middle East peace effort with the appointment of Ariel Sharon as Israeli foreign minister. Unfortunately, he is also capable of wrecking the entire peace effort. Much will depend on whether Netanyahu can control his strong-willed aide, a goal that has eluded other Israeli leaders. That will be fine if Sharon is willing to play a constructive role in the peace talks himself. Since Netanyahu has designated Sharon as his chief negotiator, the new foreign minister will soon have the opportunity to act more responsibly. Sharon can show statesmanship by helping Netanyahu close this deal, even though it is opposed by the Israeli settlers whose cause Sharon has long championed. If Sharon ever hopes to overcome the shame of Sabra and Shatila, he must become a force for peace in the Middle East. 
