summary: 
  Nearly 60 years behind the times, the House voted Friday to condemn the Nazi-Soviet nonaggression pact of 1939. He is of Lithuanian descent, has a pocket of Lithuanians in his hometown of Collinsville and wants to try to highlight his support for the Baltic states' past efforts against Soviet repression. Shimkus' measure is an example of how members of Congress are spending their time as they stand idle and wait for Republican leaders to reach agreement on spending bills with the White House, thus avoiding a government shutdown and allowing them to go home and campaign for the November elections. With time on their hands, many Republicans are using the House floor as their personal stage to elicit votes on topics that they can boast about to the folks back home. It passed the House by a vote of 224-200 but has almost no chance of becoming law. The Senate does not plan to take it up, and Clinton would almost certainly veto it.

 anti-summary: 
 He is of Lithuanian descent, has a pocket of Lithuanians in his hometown of Collinsville and wants to try to highlight his support for the Baltic states' past efforts against Soviet repression. Most of these matters have little chance of finding their way into law, but members hope to turn them to their advantage on Election Day. These tend to be special-interest matters that members hope will escape scrutiny in the rush to leave town. Democrats have little influence in the Republican-controlled Congress. Perhaps the best example of an attempt to force a vote for political advantage is a measure that would require minors to notify their parents if they are seeking contraceptives from federally funded family planning clinics. But Rep. Tom Coburn, R-Okla., said that votes like these were important because they put their sponsors' ideological foes on the record as opposing something that sounds reasonable, and that opposition can be used against them in the Nov. 3 election. 

 textrank summary:
 Most of these matters have little chance of finding their way into law, but members hope to turn them to their advantage on Election Day. These include Rep. John Murtha, D-Pa., the ranking Democrat on the national security subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee, who is pushing a measure to increase military pensions. Perhaps the best example of an attempt to force a vote for political advantage is a measure that would require minors to notify their parents if they are seeking contraceptives from federally funded family planning clinics. House leaders allowed the measure to be brought to the floor as a way to appease the more conservative members, who believe they have been shortchanged by the budget process. It passed the House by a vote of 224-200 but has almost no chance of becoming law. But Rep. Tom Coburn, R-Okla., said that votes like these were important because they put their sponsors' ideological foes on the record as opposing something that sounds reasonable, and that opposition can be used against them in the Nov. 3 election. 
