summary: 
 Unlike Major League Baseball, the National Football League and the National Hockey League, the NBA has never lost a regular-season game to labor strife. ``Since we're not even negotiating, you have to conclude it's very likely that we're going miss some part of the regular season,'' deputy commissioner Russ Granik said Monday night. '' The two sides will meet on Thursday _ their first official bargaining session since Aug. 6. Neither Granik nor players association executive director Billy Hunter sounded as if this week's meeting would go a long way toward the signing of a new agreement _ the precursor to playing again. ``I don't think you have any choice but to miss games at this point,'' Hunter said. '' Not only are both sides still awaiting the outcome of an arbitration decision that is due before Oct. 18 - the Fordham Law School dean John Feerick will rule whether or not more than 200 players with $800 million in guaranteed contracts should be paid during the lockout _ but the owners and players also are making time to win public opinion before they test their fans' loyalties by canceling games. With training camp originally scheduled to open on Oct. 6, the message from the players is clear: if the owners would call an end to the lockout, we would be ready to play today. It began last year with the contention by the owners that their employees were receiving more than their fair share of the pot. The owners were allowed to terminate the current agreement because of a clause that enabled them to do so after player salaries reached 53.8 percent of total basketball-related income. A league official said the games would be canceled in blocks of one or two weeks, depending upon circumstances regarding negotiations.

 anti-summary: 
 '' The two sides will meet on Thursday _ their first official bargaining session since Aug. 6. Patrick Ewing, the union president, and several teammates will speak at SUNY-Purchase in Purchase, N.Y., where the Knicks train during the season. ``I wish they would put their energies into trying to negotiate a deal rather than the various other things that they've been doing,'' Granik said. The owners say that figure is currently hovering around 57.1 percent. Called the Larry Bird exception, it was created to allow the Hall of Fame Boston Celtics forward to re-sign with the Celtics near the end of his career. Unfortunately, the union leadership has been unwilling to give any serious consideration to what we have offered. ``If they had left the current deal in place, we would have gotten much of that anyway,'' he added. ``All we're saying is, we're not in position to accept a hard cap. Thursday's bargaining session has suddenly become the last hope at starting the season on time. Added Hunter: ``Of course they don't expect much to get done.

 textrank summary:
 Citing stalled negotiations with the Players Association over a new collective bargaining agreement, league officials said they would decide next week whether to cancel the first week of regular season games. Privately, officials on both sides do not believe the season will start as scheduled on Nov. 3 or even before December. They've locked us out, they've refused to negotiate and they've given us a proposal that's ludicrous. Called the Larry Bird exception, it was created to allow the Hall of Fame Boston Celtics forward to re-sign with the Celtics near the end of his career. Michael Jordan exercised the clause the last two years with the Chicago Bulls, earning more than $30 million per season _ figures more than $5 million more what a team is allowed to spend on all its players. ``Our proposals would result in an average player salary of more than $3.1 million and a minimum salary for 10-year veterans of $750,000. ``If they had left the current deal in place, we would have gotten much of that anyway,'' he added. '' Monday's decision to cancel the preseason came less than two weeks after the NBA indefinitely postponed training camp and canceled the first week of exhibition games. Decisions about the cancellations of regular season games are expected to be made next week, he added. Added Hunter: ``Of course they don't expect much to get done.
