summary: 
 Billy Hunter, the union's executive director, offered a glimmer of hope. But if and when the owners decide they want a deal, then they'll get one. We would have to be stupid and ignorant to accept that deal. It's a step backwards. I cannot understand it. '' League officials did not respond to the players' comments. It's the other way around. He was stopped at the gym door, which was locked. ``Everybody's got to get that corrected. Both sides are still awaiting the outcome of an arbitration decision that is due before Oct. 18.

 anti-summary: 
  Patrick Ewing did not want to sound like a striking longshoreman demanding health benefits. On the day when training camps were scheduled to begin, players from across the country held news conferences in 14 NBA cities to proclaim themselves ready to practice for the regular season. '' The owners and players are scheduled hold their first bargaining session since Aug. 6 on Thursday in Manhattan. With wide philosophical differences on how $2 billion annual income should be distributed, both sides have privately said they don't expect to play a regular season game before December. I don't think we're that far off. '' But soon after, he began lambasting the owners' latest proposal, which includes the eventual phasing out of the Larry Bird exception _ the clause that enables free agents to earn unlimited salaries from their current teams. Owners would like to implement a restrictive salary cap that would eventually put a ceiling on how much one player can earn. If the intent was to reach an agreement at this late stage or to negotiate in earnest, this was the wrong way to go about it. But if the players lose the arbitration, more than 400 athletes _ many with extravagant lifestyles and tremendous financial obligations _ will have their allegiances instantly tested. He added, ``We're about as far apart as the Grand Canyon right now.

 textrank summary:
 ``I'm not going to try and put it in dollars and cents. ``We want to show the public that we, as players, want to play,'' said Ewing, who was flanked by five teammates. We want to practice and we want the season to start. But unfortunately, the owners have locked us out and the season has been postponed. But if and when the owners decide they want a deal, then they'll get one. '' Said Hunter, ``If you go for their proposal, it's just a joke. '' League officials did not respond to the players' comments. It's the other way around. ``They locked us out,'' said Rockets forward Mario Elie. ``Everybody's got to get that corrected.
