summary: 
 When there was no one to pass to, he reconfigured the play until a teammate was open. ``No, not really,'' Bird said, when I asked whether he is troubled by the likelihood of his legendary name soon representing a symbol of greed to unsympathetic millions. '' That would have been 1988, when the Celtics wanted to compensate Bird with a $4.9 million bonus to push through his back pain, go on as their savior. Three years later, in a contract arbitration involving the Knicks' Patrick Ewing, the agent David Falk would contend that the NBA conspired with the Celtics to circumvent the salary cap, in order to satisfy Bird. Alan Greenspan, I am sure, would agree that this salary cap is convoluted enough to give anyone a headache, so let's just say it is a cap that does not exist when a team is negotiating with one of its own. '' Important, he meant, for franchise stability and fan identification. ``You have a son who is 7 years old, he goes from 7 to 17 in the 10 years you've played,'' Bird said. He and Magic Johnson created a basketball renaissance that began during a college title showdown in Salt Lake City and spread worldwide, like an infectious smile. The owners, as always, are exaggerating their misery, but this time, it is much easier to not root for the players. Ewing leads the fight to protect the $100 million contracts for 21-year-olds who have achieved not a single playoff victory, linked to the big payoffs for agents like his friend Falk.

 anti-summary: 
 When there was no shot to take, he invented a new one. When there was no one to pass to, he reconfigured the play until a teammate was open. That is why, six years after his retirement from the National Basketball Association, his name is again basketball's most prominent, beginning with his induction to the Hall of Fame before 7,000 Bird watchers at the Civic Center here on Friday night. ``No, not really,'' Bird said, when I asked whether he is troubled by the likelihood of his legendary name soon representing a symbol of greed to unsympathetic millions. ``There's always a player's name attached to these things. '' The Bird years numbered only three Celtics championships, but he was the best player pro basketball's most famous team ever had. ``I believe that in any field there has to be an allowance for the truly special ones,'' Walton said. ``But that group is very small. When I was growing up in this sport, the only players who got the recognition were the champions, the ones who always made you feel good about the game, about sports. That's how Larry and Magic played, always dreaming of the special team.

 textrank summary:
 That is why, six years after his retirement from the National Basketball Association, his name is again basketball's most prominent, beginning with his induction to the Hall of Fame before 7,000 Bird watchers at the Civic Center here on Friday night. ``There's always a player's name attached to these things. Alan Greenspan, I am sure, would agree that this salary cap is convoluted enough to give anyone a headache, so let's just say it is a cap that does not exist when a team is negotiating with one of its own. The process of unsealing the cap to re-sign a particular player eventually became known as making use of the Larry Bird exception. And that is where we stand, as this onetime exception has become the very expensive rule the owners don't want to play by anymore. '' The Bird years numbered only three Celtics championships, but he was the best player pro basketball's most famous team ever had. The battle is waged in the name of a salary cap that makes exceptions of the unexceptional, rewards everyone as if they were Bird. When I was growing up in this sport, the only players who got the recognition were the champions, the ones who always made you feel good about the game, about sports. That's how Larry and Magic played, always dreaming of the special team. Bird was a businessman's ball player from the day he arrived, with his flannel shirts and blue-collar ethic.
