summary: 
 Taking into account that a three- to four-week period would be needed for training camp and free-agent signings before the season starts, the league said it would decide in two weeks whether to make further cancellations. ``I consider it to be a collective failure, but I honestly don't know what else we could have done. The talks featured what the players association implied were a bevy concessions made to the owners that they felt would accommodate the league's desire to swing the revenue pendulum back toward the owners. The main sticking point has been the owners' insistence on a salary cap without exceptions, the implementation of which they believe would bring player salaries' in line with revenue growth. _ Also, if the 63-percent threshold is met, a reduction of annual 20 percent raises would take effect for multi-year contracts. The union said this clearly addresses the league's desire to bring salaries in line with revenues. _ Finally, the players agreed to make marijuana a banned substance. ``I don't know if I'm more optimistic, but I can earnestly say we can look our ballplayers in the eye and say we made a valiant effort. It doesn't look promising, but we're going to spend the next two days to see if we can give a favorable response. Both sides reluctantly hammered out a deal in 1995 before the start of training camp with the sole notion of not missing games and preserving the NBA's perfect record.

 anti-summary: 
 The decision to cancel 99 games between Nov. 3 and Nov. 16 came after the players association proposed the implementation of a tax system instead of a hard salary cap, a proposal the owners said they would respond to by Friday. ``Unfortunately, it didn't work out. I do things that I like to think are in the best interests of the game. And I believe this is. The dispute involves the distribution of approximately $2 billion in league-wide income. If the figure was $29 million over the salary cap, then the 29 teams would work with a salary cap $1 million less than the previous season. We want to reach an agreement. '' Though the decision to cancel games was not surprising, it did represent a major shift in prior labor stalemates. Tuesday, they could not come to such an accord. ``I'd like to think these our the last games we have to cancel,'' Granik said.

 textrank summary:
 The decision to cancel 99 games between Nov. 3 and Nov. 16 came after the players association proposed the implementation of a tax system instead of a hard salary cap, a proposal the owners said they would respond to by Friday. ``Unfortunately, it didn't work out. Taking into account that a three- to four-week period would be needed for training camp and free-agent signings before the season starts, the league said it would decide in two weeks whether to make further cancellations. '' The decision came after what both sides agreed were the most substantive talks since the owners imposed a lockout on the player July 1. And I think the league feels the same way. If the figure was $29 million over the salary cap, then the 29 teams would work with a salary cap $1 million less than the previous season. _ Teams would get a right of first refusal on free agents after the fourth year for incoming rookies, meaning a player would be contractually obligated to the same team for the first four years of his deal. Details of testing have not been negotiated and no specific discussions took place regarding testing for performance-enhancing drugs, a provision the owners included in their last proposal. This would allow every team above the salary cap being able to sign one free agent per year for the average salary _ currently $2.6 million. Tuesday, they could not come to such an accord.
