summary: 
  More than 220 National Basketball Association players with guaranteed contracts will find out Monday whether they are to be paid during the management lockout, a long-awaited arbitrator's decision that may affect leverage in the league's dispute with the players and have major ramifications on American sports-labor law. NBA attorneys have indicated to the union that if the decision goes against management, they will seek to have it vacated by appealing to the U.S. District Court in Manhattan and then, if necessary, to the 2nd U.S. At most, it's a hollow victory. In support of its arguments, the union pointed to clauses in a few individual player contracts that contained language precluding payment during a lockout. The deterrent factor of a lockout is that employees subject to a collective bargaining agreement do not get paid once the agreement expires and they are unable to reach a new agreement. They would essentially be paid for not playing basketball. But Hunter disputed this notion, and in a conference call Friday talked openly about the entire season's being canceled before the players would back away from their ultimate goals. Steve Kauffman, another member of the committee, said he would explore the possibility that one client, Nets center Rony Seikaly, would sign with a professional team in Greece. ``We wouldn't look to void his deal with the team,'' Kauffman said. ``But we would want him to have the right for him to work temporarily until he could come back and honor his contract.

 anti-summary: 
 But neither the players nor the owners are counting on the ruling by the arbitrator, John Feerick, to speed up negotiations, especially if Feerick finds in favor of the players, an award that could approach $800 million in salaries. NBA attorneys have indicated to the union that if the decision goes against management, they will seek to have it vacated by appealing to the U.S. District Court in Manhattan and then, if necessary, to the 2nd U.S. ``If he rules in our favor, I think it emboldens the spirit and the resolve of the players,'' said Billy Hunter, union executive director. ``But we understand that won't end the lockout. During the NBA summer lockout of 1995, players who missed paychecks did not file a grievance. The union argued that owners should have protected themselves by inserting clauses about non-payment for lockouts and strikes into individual player contracts. In support of its arguments, the union pointed to clauses in a few individual player contracts that contained language precluding payment during a lockout. A ruling for the union would be significant for all future negotiations between players and owners. ``There's been no demonstration that there's going to be a change in our resolve. ``I don't think we should get too carried away about the possibilities just yet,'' Granik said.

 textrank summary:
 It just means they have to pay 200-some players. Neither did National Hockey League players who were locked out for the first three months of the 1994-95 season. The union argued that owners should have protected themselves by inserting clauses about non-payment for lockouts and strikes into individual player contracts. In support of its arguments, the union pointed to clauses in a few individual player contracts that contained language precluding payment during a lockout. ``There's been no demonstration that there's going to be a change in our resolve. '' Another significant development may be thedeparture of many players to Europe until the dispute is settled, according to at least two player agents. Proposals exchanged last week that included the concept of a luxury-tax system on player salaries appeared to reflect the first signs of progress in negotiations since the lockout began July 1. ``I don't think we should get too carried away about the possibilities just yet,'' Granik said. But to call their first proposal meaningless is charitable. '' The owners' goal is to slow the growth of player salaries in relation to leaguewide revenue over the next three years, while the players want to keep earning as much as possible. 
