summary: 
 Taking into account that a three- to four-week period would be needed for training camp and free-agent signings before the season starts, the league said it would decide in two weeks whether to make further cancellations. ``I'm very sad and disappointed,'' said the NBA commissioner, David Stern. ``I consider it to be a collective failure, but I honestly don't know what else we could have done. _ A salary cap credit would go into effect if the league pays out more than 63 percent of revenues in salary. But the players would have an assurance that the salary cap would go up at least $2 million before the credit goes into effect. _ Also, if the 63-percent threshold is met, a reduction of annual 20 percent raises would take effect for multi-year contracts. _ Finally, the players agreed to make marijuana a banned substance. ``I don't know if I'm more optimistic, but I can earnestly say we can look our ballplayers in the eye and say we made a valiant effort. '' Added Stern, ``We owe it to the fans to go back and look at the notion whether a tax rate might begin to achieve the result we wanted. It doesn't look promising, but we're going to spend the next two days to see if we can give a favorable response.

 anti-summary: 
 The NBA's deputy commissioner, Russ Granik, announced the cancellation after nearly three and a half hours of meetings concluded at a Manhattan hotel. ``Unfortunately, it didn't work out. '' The decision came after what both sides agreed were the most substantive talks since the owners imposed a lockout on the player July 1. For example, if a player made $20 million, the team would be forced to put $1 million into a fund that would most likely be distributed to low-revenue teams. If the figure was $29 million over the salary cap, then the 29 teams would work with a salary cap $1 million less than the previous season. _ Teams would get a right of first refusal on free agents after the fourth year for incoming rookies, meaning a player would be contractually obligated to the same team for the first four years of his deal. Currently, the rookie scale is three years and includes a clause that enables a player to exercise his Bird rights after two seasons _ a clause Kevin Garnett parlayed into an astronomical $126 million deal last year with Minnesota. _ Finally, the players agreed to make marijuana a banned substance. In return for the concessions, the players want an increase in the minimum salary _ currently $272,500 _ and creation of an average salary exception. This would allow every team above the salary cap being able to sign one free agent per year for the average salary _ currently $2.6 million.

 textrank summary:
  The National Basketball Association, embroiled in a labor dispute with its players, Tuesday canceled the first two weeks of the 1998-99 season. The decision to cancel 99 games between Nov. 3 and Nov. 16 came after the players association proposed the implementation of a tax system instead of a hard salary cap, a proposal the owners said they would respond to by Friday. ``Unfortunately, it didn't work out. '' The decision came after what both sides agreed were the most substantive talks since the owners imposed a lockout on the player July 1. And I think the league feels the same way. If the figure was $29 million over the salary cap, then the 29 teams would work with a salary cap $1 million less than the previous season. _ Teams would get a right of first refusal on free agents after the fourth year for incoming rookies, meaning a player would be contractually obligated to the same team for the first four years of his deal. Details of testing have not been negotiated and no specific discussions took place regarding testing for performance-enhancing drugs, a provision the owners included in their last proposal. This would allow every team above the salary cap being able to sign one free agent per year for the average salary _ currently $2.6 million. Tuesday, they could not come to such an accord.
