summary: 
  As labor battles go, the current one between the National Basketball Association and its players is weird even by sports standards. There is a real possibility that most, if not all, of the coming season will be canceled. The number of players making $1 million to $2 million a year _ the middle class, in NBA terms _ fell sharply. Big stars get millions, while most get union scale. In the current negotiation, the league has offered to guarantee that its payroll will rise 20 percent over the next four years, from $1 billion to $1.2 billion, and says it is open to proposals to split that money any way the players want, whether by raising the minimum salary or guaranteeing raises for veterans. ) Owners hoped the players would think management was willing to wait them out, and come to terms with only a small part of the season canceled. It turned aside requests for negotiations this week, saying the players had to meet first. The idea is that if the players had no union, it would be illegal under antitrust laws for the owners to collude. That tactic might fail. Billy Hunter, the union's executive director, warned the owners this week that a prolonged lockout could destroy the league's popularity.

 anti-summary: 
  As labor battles go, the current one between the National Basketball Association and its players is weird even by sports standards. In this union battle it is the interests of the best paid, not those who make union scale, that are dominating the discussion. And here it is some of the workers, not the management, who are considering trying to make the union disappear. The current arrangement has produced an unbalanced pay scale of immense proportions. Over the years, NBA efforts to stem the rise of salaries have failed. In the current negotiation, the league has offered to guarantee that its payroll will rise 20 percent over the next four years, from $1 billion to $1.2 billion, and says it is open to proposals to split that money any way the players want, whether by raising the minimum salary or guaranteeing raises for veterans. Then there is the issue of union suicide, a tactic that was rejected by the players in 1995. The sky would be the limit. That tactic might fail. The courts could reject a union decertification vote as a sham, and in any case some players may fear that teams would feel free to offer less than the old union minimum.

 textrank summary:
 In this union battle it is the interests of the best paid, not those who make union scale, that are dominating the discussion. And here it is some of the workers, not the management, who are considering trying to make the union disappear. Last year more players than ever before received the union minimum, then $242,000 for rookies or $272,000 for veterans. Big stars get millions, while most get union scale. When that was adopted, it was assumed that no team would pay a lot more than a rival could pay. The union says it is worried about that middle class, but seems determined to preserve the free market. ) Owners hoped the players would think management was willing to wait them out, and come to terms with only a small part of the season canceled. But the union is acting unhurried. Then there is the issue of union suicide, a tactic that was rejected by the players in 1995. The courts could reject a union decertification vote as a sham, and in any case some players may fear that teams would feel free to offer less than the old union minimum.
