summary: 
  Palm Pilot in one hand, cellular phone in the other, Jean-Marc Routiers, 26, was juggling business calls halfway between London and Paris. When his phone went dead as the high-speed Eurostar train pulled into the underwater tunnel that links England to the Continent, the London-based French banker loosened his Italian silk tie and introduced himself. ``I definitely describe myself as a European,'' he said in the fluent English he perfected working at an Australian bank. ``I may get sentimental when they play the Marseillaise, but for all the practical things, I see myself as a citizen of Europe. I like the lifestyle in France, but I don't make my living there. '' The year 1999 is the official start-up date of the euro, the common European currency that will unite 11 countries monetarily. But throughout Europe, a different kind of integration has already taken root. Routiers, who was spending a day in Paris to meet with his bank's French clients, is at the vanguard of a new generation of Europeans who do not have to brace themselves for a shock in the new year. Mobile, fluent in several languages and aggressively non-nationalistic, they are already living the kind of borderless, cosmopolitan existence that the single European currency is supposed to advance. They do not share their parents' memories of World War II or their parents' sense of national identity.

 anti-summary: 
 They do not share their parents' memories of World War II or their parents' sense of national identity. And membership has its privileges. '' Baby-boomers in Europe often describe themselves as the 1968 generation, weaned on the protest and social turmoil that convulsed European societies 30 years ago. Back then some economists dourly predicted huge migrations, particularly of unskilled laborers moving from southern countries to the more prosperous north. There are 15 countries within what is now the European Union, but only a small percentage of their citizens have moved to other countries, according to estimates prepared by Eurostat. Studying abroad was once a privilege reserved to the sons and daughters of Europe's elite. ``I didn't go to public schools or Oxbridge,'' he explained. ``I'm not saying its impossible, but it would have been much more difficult in England. '' Yet Continental Europeans who flock to London find themselves bypassing English society and joining a cosmopolitan world where birth and breeding do not matter as much. His students, a generation behind him, see nothing exceptional in his transnationalism.

 textrank summary:
 He works for a Swiss bank in London, speaks Greek, English and French, and in the past year has traveled, among other places, to Belgium, the United States, Cuba, Switzerland and Italy. Not tourists _ people who live and work here. A Frenchman could work in Holland, an Italian could work in Germany without a permit. There are still legal barriers preventing most doctors, lawyers and academics from finding work in other countries. Even people who do not care about politics recognize the faces of a Tony Blair or Jacques Chirac. Ten years ago, very few people did. ``I could never have the kind of job I have had I stayed in Paris,'' Routier explained. A Belgian who studied business at Harvard, he lives and teaches in France and does consulting work all over Europe, from Sweden to the Czech Republic. ``In Germany, for example, it is the business people who are pushing ahead with change and pulling politicians along behind them kicking and screaming,'' Szabo said. They are answering to an international one.
