summary: 
 This position would indicate that Gadhafi is giving himself enough diplomatic room in the event he decides against giving up the suspects. Libyan media, controlled by the government, did not report on the visit in a sign that the subject is of great sensitivity. They are accused by the United States and Britain of blowing up a Pan Am airliner over the Scottish village of Lockerbie on Dec. 21, 1988. All 259 people aboard the Boeing 747 and 11 people on ground were killed. On Friday, Annan said the U.N. team ``has done some good work on the Lockerbie dossier. Since then a new hurdle has cropped up over the imprisonment of the suspects, if convicted. The U.N. sanctions on Libya do not cover oil exports, Libya's economic lifeblood. Some Libyan assets abroad have also been frozen.

 anti-summary: 
  TRIPOLI, Libya (AP) _ U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan arrived in Libya Saturday for talks aimed at bringing to trial two Libyan suspects in the 1988 Pan Am bombing over Lockerbie, Scotland. Annan's one-day visit to meet with Libyan leader Col. Moammar Gadhafi followed reports in the Libyan media that Gadhafi had no authority to hand over the suspects. This position would indicate that Gadhafi is giving himself enough diplomatic room in the event he decides against giving up the suspects. They are accused by the United States and Britain of blowing up a Pan Am airliner over the Scottish village of Lockerbie on Dec. 21, 1988. Dutch authorities say they have made arrangements to hold the trial at Camp Zeist, a former air force base near Utrecht. '' ``We will try to resolve some problems and to find solutions together _ once and for all,'' Annan said. The Netherlands was chosen as a venue for the trial after Libya itself proposed the trial be held in a third country. Libya wants them jailed in the Netherlands or Libya, but the United States and Britain say they should be imprisoned in Scotland and refuse to negotiate the issue.

 textrank summary:
  TRIPOLI, Libya (AP) _ U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan arrived in Libya Saturday for talks aimed at bringing to trial two Libyan suspects in the 1988 Pan Am bombing over Lockerbie, Scotland. Annan's one-day visit to meet with Libyan leader Col. Moammar Gadhafi followed reports in the Libyan media that Gadhafi had no authority to hand over the suspects. A Libyan official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Annan had arrived in the country but refused to give details. Libyan media, controlled by the government, did not report on the visit in a sign that the subject is of great sensitivity. Dutch authorities say they have made arrangements to hold the trial at Camp Zeist, a former air force base near Utrecht. '' ``As such, Col. Gadhafi is not empowered to sign an agreement,'' the report said. Libya wants them jailed in the Netherlands or Libya, but the United States and Britain say they should be imprisoned in Scotland and refuse to negotiate the issue. They ban air travel to and from the country and arms sales.
