summary: 
  With the mournful lament of bagpipes and prayers of healing, the people of Lockerbie paid tribute to the 270 people killed when a bomb brought Pan Am Flight 103 crashing down on this tiny town 10 years ago Monday. '' The congregation heard the children of the local elementary school sing a tribute, ``Let There be Love,'' as well as a message from the queen. Simultaneous services were also held at Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia and in Syracuse, New York, which lost 35 college students in the crash. ``This was a very positive, emotional day,'' Bert Ammerman of River Vale, New Jersey, whose brother Thomas died in the crash, said after the service. ``Be certain that our wreath-laying today is not a symbolic gesture. It is a declaration that we will not rest until we have justice and truth, until all who are responsible for your deaths are held accountable,'' he said. The aircraft was felled by a small amount of high explosives smuggled on in a portable radio hidden inside a suitcase, which made its way as checked baggage from Malta to Frankfurt, Germany, and then to London. 

 anti-summary: 
  With the mournful lament of bagpipes and prayers of healing, the people of Lockerbie paid tribute to the 270 people killed when a bomb brought Pan Am Flight 103 crashing down on this tiny town 10 years ago Monday. The hundreds who packed Dryfesdale Parish Church heard messages from British Prime Minister Tony Blair and U.S. President Bill Clinton, who renewed their vows to punish the culprits who hid the bomb in a suitcase on Dec. 21, 1988. ``Our task in commemoration is to continue that meaning and to build on that achievement. He said the people of Lockerbie have ``proven over the past 10 years that good intentions can overcome evil. ``Ten years ago, for you and for us, a bomb was ticking,'' the Rev. ``Be assured of this _ there is another bomb ticking _ the irresistible bomb of justice and truth. It is a declaration that we will not rest until we have justice and truth, until all who are responsible for your deaths are held accountable,'' he said.

 textrank summary:
  With the mournful lament of bagpipes and prayers of healing, the people of Lockerbie paid tribute to the 270 people killed when a bomb brought Pan Am Flight 103 crashing down on this tiny town 10 years ago Monday. David Almond told the gathering of about 600 people, which included 60 family members of those who perished. In a separate service in London's Westminster Abbey, attended by Blair, Foreign Secretary Robin Cook and Prince Andrew, the second son of Queen Elizabeth II, hundreds listened as one-by-one the names of the 259 passengers and 11 of Lockerbie's own residents were read out as a candle was lit for each. Each service began at 7:03 p.m. (1903 GMT), the moment when the plane disappeared from the radar screen above Scotland. ``Ten years ago, for you and for us, a bomb was ticking,'' the Rev. ``Be assured of this _ there is another bomb ticking _ the irresistible bomb of justice and truth. Two Libyan suspects have been indicted in connection with the bombing, but have not yet been turned over for trial.
