summary: 
 Inside, to the tinny recorded wail of Koranic verses, neighbors and relatives of the dead man _ a 21-year-old university student felled on the roof of his own home by an Israeli soldier's rubber-coated bullet _ sipped tiny cups of coffee left unsweetened to symbolize the bitter occasion. I hope God will enable me to use my grief to strengthen my determination for peace. Palestinian families struggle to keep alive the memories of fathers and brothers languishing in Israeli prisons, and chafe under the checkpoints and gunsights of Israeli troops. On both sides, the youngest soak up fear and anger along with their ABCs. Against this backdrop, amid a landscape little changed since biblical times, terrible Old Testament themes _ lamentation and retribution, the smiting of enemies and the sharpening of swords _ spring to life once again in any day's headlines. Clinton is under an impeachment cloud; Arafat is buffeted by furious Palestinian street protests and his own failing health, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's coalition government is hanging by a thread. In the West Bank's worst spasm of violence in months, Israelis watched windows of Israeli-plated cars shatter from stones thrown by angry youths, saw TV footage of a cringing Israeli soldier _ now facing court martial _ being beaten bloody by a Palestinian mob, heard Palestinian officials' exhortations for a new intefadeh, or uprising. Palestinians intend to play on that symbolism for all it is worth, greeting him with the strains of their once-banned national anthem. His 14-year-old brother Taher spoke haltingly of the big brother he had looked up to. Saeb Erekat, the peace negotiator, could find neither lesson nor logic to his young cousin's death.

 anti-summary: 
  On a street newly littered with the debris of battle _ stones, spent tear gas canisters, charred remnants of half-burned tires _ a sodden Palestinian flag flaps in a fitful rain-laden wind outside a house in mourning. Among those in attendance on this day, the first of the traditional three days of family mourning, was Saeb Erekat, the chief peace negotiator for Yasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority. Erekat stayed for a time, sitting amid clan elders in Arab headdresses and teen-age nephews in American-style athletic shoes, then slipped away for a meeting in connection with President Clinton's visit beginning this weekend. Everyone has a stake in it. Israelis fret daily over soldier sons on dangerous patrol in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, or shudder when they pass a sidewalk cafe once ripped by an Islamic militant's suicide bomb. Now comes Clinton, this most American of presidents, one who has made Middle East peacemaking a kind of personal crusade, in hopes of halting what has become one of the century's most protracted blood feuds. Clinton is no stranger to these particular hatreds. The days leading up to Clinton's visit have been divisive ones, contriving somehow to simultaneously tap into both sides' greatest fears. Amr Erekat, 27, recalled his disbelief as he cradled his dying cousin in his arms. ``It's senseless, this rhythm of bloodshed,'' he said.

 textrank summary:
 Among those in attendance on this day, the first of the traditional three days of family mourning, was Saeb Erekat, the chief peace negotiator for Yasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority. Erekat stayed for a time, sitting amid clan elders in Arab headdresses and teen-age nephews in American-style athletic shoes, then slipped away for a meeting in connection with President Clinton's visit beginning this weekend. I hope God will enable me to use my grief to strengthen my determination for peace. Everyone has a stake in it. On the occasion of this visit _ first intended to celebrate the Wye River accords signed seven weeks ago in Washington, now meant to salvage them _ all three of the principals are embattled. Both sides _ to Palestinians' satisfaction, and Israel's dismay _ came to see the visit as an implicit acknowledgement of Palestinian statehood aspirations, despite increasingly desperate American efforts to avoid casting it in that light. Clinton's foray to the Gaza Strip, which is already under Palestinian rule, will be the first by a sitting American president. In the mourning house in Abu Dis, though, the friends and relatives of Nasr Erekat had little to say about politics and statehood. Amr Erekat, 27, recalled his disbelief as he cradled his dying cousin in his arms. Saeb Erekat, the peace negotiator, could find neither lesson nor logic to his young cousin's death.
