summary: 
 The president was sure to be asked about the impeachment drama unfolding in Washington. At a late-night arrival ceremony for Clinton Saturday, Netanyahu said he hoped the president's visit would ``contribute to true peace. Thousands of police were deployed throughout Israel during the Clinton visit. Mrs. Clinton toured a school in a cooperative village of Jews and Palestinians, while Chelsea visited Jerusalem's Western Wall, Judaism's holiest site. '' About two hours before Air Force One landed Saturday night, the House Judiciary Committee approved a fourth article of impeachment against Clinton. ``President Clinton played a very important role in the Wye Memorandum and its success, and I think that it's going to be very, very important that this visit show us at least a readiness on the part of the Palestinian Authority to move forward in peace,'' Fogel said. We are not entitled, not able and not prepared to forgo fulfillment of those commitments. '' Since Clinton presided over its signing in Washington in October, the land-for-security agreement has hit one snag after another. Israel froze implementation of the accord altogether, accusing Arafat of violating the deal and inciting violent street protests. Israel and the Palestinians are also in bitter disagreement over procedures for revoking passages in the Palestinian charter calling for Israel's destruction and the release of Palestinian prisoners held in Israeli jails for militant or political acts against the Jewish state.

 anti-summary: 
 Clinton's wife, Hillary, and their daughter, Chelsea, set out on their own schedule. But, he added, ``it should be based on mutual reciprocity. There was no letup in violence Sunday. ``Peace is not simply an option among many but the only choice that can avert still more years of bloodshed, apprehension and sorrow,'' he said. The Israeli leader is fighting for his political survival as parliament prepares for a no-confidence vote within two weeks. His coalition began to weaken after he and Arafat signed the Wye River Memorandum Oct. 23 agreeing to turn over 13 percent of West Bank territory to be met by Palestinian security measures. Netanyahu has said there would be no further troop withdrawals until West Bank rioting and violence ends. Israel and the Palestinians are also in bitter disagreement over procedures for revoking passages in the Palestinian charter calling for Israel's destruction and the release of Palestinian prisoners held in Israeli jails for militant or political acts against the Jewish state. Clinton's visit to Gaza and his address to the Palestinian National Council is seen by some as a boost for dreams of Palestinian statehood. ``It implies de facto recognition of a Palestinian state,'' Ziyad Abu Ziyad, a member of the Palestinian legislative council, said in an interview Sunday. 

 textrank summary:
 At a late-night arrival ceremony for Clinton Saturday, Netanyahu said he hoped the president's visit would ``contribute to true peace. '' Again, the Israeli leader accused the Palestinians of ignoring commitments in peace accords. Clinton is to meet with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat on Monday in the Gaza Strip. Clinton's wife, Hillary, and their daughter, Chelsea, set out on their own schedule. '' About two hours before Air Force One landed Saturday night, the House Judiciary Committee approved a fourth article of impeachment against Clinton. Israeli government spokesman Moshe Fogel was asked Sunday if the success of Clinton's visit would turn on the question of revoking the Palestinian Liberation Organization's founding charter. ``President Clinton played a very important role in the Wye Memorandum and its success, and I think that it's going to be very, very important that this visit show us at least a readiness on the part of the Palestinian Authority to move forward in peace,'' Fogel said. Netanyahu has said there would be no further troop withdrawals until West Bank rioting and violence ends. On Monday, the president is to fly to the Palestinian-run Gaza Strip to be welcomed by Arafat with the trappings of a state visit. Clinton's visit to Gaza and his address to the Palestinian National Council is seen by some as a boost for dreams of Palestinian statehood.
