summary: 
 They think they have the United States in their back pocket,'' said the Israeli leader. Palestinians claim it is Israel that has violated the summit agreement reached in October by not freeing jailed political activists, by confiscating West Bank land for roads and allowing Jewish settlers to seize hilltops for expansion. We've said to the United States that we don't think that is necessary,'' Netanyahu said of reports that Clinton's plane would land in Gaza. He said traveling by motorcade would be quicker and more politically considerate. ``Unless somebody wants to put a thumb in our eye, I think there are better ways to travel,'' Netanyahu said. ``What must be is that Yasser Arafat retracts this open and incipient violation of the Oslo and Wye River accords and recommits himself to negotiating until we get white smoke, until we get a solution. That's the only way we'll get a real peace between Israel and the Palestinians,'' Netanyahu said. Israel is also upset by statements that the nearly 600-member Palestinian National Council will not reaffirm in a vote that anti-Israel clauses in the Palestinian charter have been deleted. Netanyahu maintained that only 25 members out of hundreds who live abroad had been invited so far. Netanyahu quoted Clinton as telling him that the purpose of his visit was to ``personally make sure that they actually rescind this charter that calls for Israel's destruction.

 anti-summary: 
 Netanyahu, in an interview with The Associated Press, said the Palestinians were emboldened to foment street riots and threaten to declare statehood because they believed they had the Clinton administration ``in their back pocket. ``As long as that is the case, they will not change their behavior. But officials said Science Minister Silvan Shalom attacked him for being too generous to the Palestinians by agreeing to the Clinton visit next week to Gaza and the West Bank. Israel has threatened to scrap the next Israeli troop pullback, which is scheduled for Dec. 18, three days after Clinton's departure. Palestinians see the Clinton trip as implicit recognition of their struggle for statehood, even though Clinton has specifically said in an interview aired on Israel's Channel 2 television that it should not be read that way. In the interview, Netanyahu stressed that he opposed Palestinian statehood and demanded that Arafat stop threatening to declare independence on May 4, 1999, when the Palestinians maintain the Oslo accords expire. That's the only way we'll get a real peace between Israel and the Palestinians,'' Netanyahu said. In a conciliatory speech in Sweden over the weekend, Arafat stressed that he sought a negotiated settlement and did not mention May 4 as a deadline. Each side has a different interpretation of the understanding regarding the prisoners. Netanyahu maintained that only 25 members out of hundreds who live abroad had been invited so far.

 textrank summary:
  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday accused Yasser Arafat of ``making a farce'' of the Wye River accords and said he would not agree to further troop withdrawals until a halt to anti-Israel violence. Netanyahu, in an interview with The Associated Press, said the Palestinians were emboldened to foment street riots and threaten to declare statehood because they believed they had the Clinton administration ``in their back pocket. They think they have the United States in their back pocket,'' said the Israeli leader. Ahmed Qureia, speaker of the Palestinian Legislative Council and the head of the peace team that negotiated the Oslo accords, told reporters Sunday ``all means of resistance'' was justified in opposing settler activity. ``We are not going to give up territory when there are violations of the agreement and attempts to get things that weren't achieved at Wye using violence,'' Netanyahu said. In the interview, Netanyahu stressed that he opposed Palestinian statehood and demanded that Arafat stop threatening to declare independence on May 4, 1999, when the Palestinians maintain the Oslo accords expire. ``What must be is that Yasser Arafat retracts this open and incipient violation of the Oslo and Wye River accords and recommits himself to negotiating until we get white smoke, until we get a solution. That's the only way we'll get a real peace between Israel and the Palestinians,'' Netanyahu said. In a conciliatory speech in Sweden over the weekend, Arafat stressed that he sought a negotiated settlement and did not mention May 4 as a deadline. He also said any Palestinian state would not make alliances with states hostile to Israel _ one of Netanyahu's key concerns.
