summary: 
 His death, announced at Poudre Valley Hospital here, fanned the outrage that followed word of last week's attack, spawning nationwide vigils, producing a call for federal hate-crimes legislation from President Clinton and fueling debates over such laws in a host of Western states, including Wyoming, that have resisted them. In the last two decades, 21 states and the District of Columbia have passed laws that increase penalties for crimes that are committed because of a person's race, religion, color, national origin, and sexual orientation. In Washington, Clinton responded to news of Shepard's death by urging Congress to pass the federal Hate Crimes Protection Act, which would make federal offenses of crimes based on sex, disability and sexual orientation. Wyoming has been one of the nation's holdouts, rejecting three hate crimes bills since 1994, most recently in February. Be very careful of any changes and be sure you're not taking away rights of others in the process to race to this. '' Agreement came from John Paulk, who was featured this summer in a series of advertisements about how he and his wife, Anne, ``overcame'' homosexuality through religious conversion. '' Last Thursday, the Family Research Council unveiled a series of television advertisements that preach the ``healing'' of homosexuality through religious conversion. Hate crime laws that are on the books in 40 states have not impinged on freedom of speech, said Brian Levin, a criminal justice professor who directs the Center on Hate and Extremism at Stockton College, in Pomona, N.J. He also said that roughly half of the people who attack homosexuals are male, aged 22 or younger. ``This University of Wyoming student was beaten and left to die, tied to a fence like an animal because he was honest and open about being gay,'' Beatrice Dorhn, legal director of the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, said Monday, ``Matthew Shepard's horrible suffering and death cannot be dismissed simply as the fault of deranged, isolated individuals.

 anti-summary: 
  Matthew Shepard, the gay college student who was kidnapped and severely beaten, died here Monday, five days after he was found unconscious on a Wyoming ranch where he had been left tied to a fence for 18 hours in near-freezing temperatures. '' Leaders of gay rights groups interviewed Monday said they would respect the family's privacy by not attending the burial in Casper, Wyo., on Saturday. ``Matthew's death, I hope, will bring about a better and deeper understanding of hate crime laws,'' said Elizabeth Birch, executive director of the Human Rights Campaign, a lesbian and gay rights group that has 250,000 members. But Christian conservatives warn that gay leaders want to use Shepard's death to expand hate rights laws and to curtail freedom of speech. '' Agreement came from John Paulk, who was featured this summer in a series of advertisements about how he and his wife, Anne, ``overcame'' homosexuality through religious conversion. '' Last Thursday, the Family Research Council unveiled a series of television advertisements that preach the ``healing'' of homosexuality through religious conversion. ``Because their social stature in society, gays are often viewed as appropriate targets,'' Levin added. Citing the need for hate crime laws to send a clear message to gay bashers, Levin said: ``The discourse in society leaves many of these people to believe that what they are doing is socially acceptable. ``This University of Wyoming student was beaten and left to die, tied to a fence like an animal because he was honest and open about being gay,'' Beatrice Dorhn, legal director of the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, said Monday, ``Matthew Shepard's horrible suffering and death cannot be dismissed simply as the fault of deranged, isolated individuals. His attackers are among millions of Americans who constantly hear the message that gay people are not worthy of the most basic equal treatment,'' Ms. Dorhn said. 

 textrank summary:
 But they added that they hoped the death would have an impact on legislators around the nation. ``Matthew's death, I hope, will bring about a better and deeper understanding of hate crime laws,'' said Elizabeth Birch, executive director of the Human Rights Campaign, a lesbian and gay rights group that has 250,000 members. '' In 1996, 21 men and women were killed in the United States because of their sexual orientation, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center, an Alabama group that tracks violence against minorities. But Christian conservatives warn that gay leaders want to use Shepard's death to expand hate rights laws and to curtail freedom of speech. ``We have every right to speak out against an agenda that is contrary to Biblical norms,'' said Paulk, who describes himself as a homosexuality specialist for Focus on the Family, a Christian group in Colorado Springs, Colo. ``Because we are standing up and opposing the homosexual agenda, we are being looked upon as advocating violence against homosexuals, when we categorically reject violence against homosexuals. Instead, he said, hate crime laws send a clear message that society does not tolerate attacks on minorities. '' Levin said that his research indicated that homosexuals suffered higher rates of violent crime than the population at large. ``With other crimes, violence is a means to an end. With hate crimes, the violence becomes an unstoppable goal,'' Levin said. Citing the need for hate crime laws to send a clear message to gay bashers, Levin said: ``The discourse in society leaves many of these people to believe that what they are doing is socially acceptable.
