summary: 
 But investigators also said Shepard's sexuality may have been a factor. '' Geringer said that Shepard's father also said: ``Don't rush into just passing all kinds of new hate-crimes laws. Be very careful of any changes and be sure you're not taking away rights of others in the process to race to this. '' Agreement came from John Paulk, who was featured this summer in a series of advertisements about how he and his wife, Anne, ``overcame'' homosexuality through religious conversion. ``We have every right to speak out against an agenda that is contrary to Biblical norms,'' said Paulk, who describes himself as a homosexuality specialist for Focus on the Family, a Christian group in Colorado Springs, Colo. ``Because we are standing up and opposing the homosexual agenda, we are being looked upon as advocating violence against homosexuals, when we categorically reject violence against homosexuals. Hate crime laws that are on the books in 40 states have not impinged on freedom of speech, said Brian Levin, a criminal justice professor who directs the Center on Hate and Extremism at Stockton College, in Pomona, N.J. He also said that roughly half of the people who attack homosexuals are male, aged 22 or younger. With hate crimes, the violence becomes an unstoppable goal,'' Levin said. '' While some gay leaders saw crucifixion imagery in Shepard's death, others saw a different symbolism: the Old West practice of nailing a dead coyote to a ranch fence as a warning to future intruders. His attackers are among millions of Americans who constantly hear the message that gay people are not worthy of the most basic equal treatment,'' Ms. Dorhn said. 

 anti-summary: 
 Russell Anderson, 21, and Aaron McKinney, 21, were charged with attempted murder and are expected to face first-degree murder charges that could bring the death penalty. In Denver, mourners wrote messages on a graffiti wall as part of national Gay Awareness Week. Conservatives generally oppose such laws because they favor one group's rights over another. Jim Geringer appealed to lawmakers to reconsider their opposition. ``Matthew's death may lead to an awakening in Wyoming and in the United States Congress as the need for this legislation. '' ``It would criminalize pro-family beliefs,'' Schwalm said. ``This basically sends a message that you can't disagree with the political message of homosexual activists. Instead, he said, hate crime laws send a clear message that society does not tolerate attacks on minorities. Offenders get emboldened if they are not punished the first time. ``With other crimes, violence is a means to an end.

 textrank summary:
 But they added that they hoped the death would have an impact on legislators around the nation. ``Matthew's death, I hope, will bring about a better and deeper understanding of hate crime laws,'' said Elizabeth Birch, executive director of the Human Rights Campaign, a lesbian and gay rights group that has 250,000 members. '' In 1996, 21 men and women were killed in the United States because of their sexual orientation, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center, an Alabama group that tracks violence against minorities. But Christian conservatives warn that gay leaders want to use Shepard's death to expand hate rights laws and to curtail freedom of speech. ``We have every right to speak out against an agenda that is contrary to Biblical norms,'' said Paulk, who describes himself as a homosexuality specialist for Focus on the Family, a Christian group in Colorado Springs, Colo. ``Because we are standing up and opposing the homosexual agenda, we are being looked upon as advocating violence against homosexuals, when we categorically reject violence against homosexuals. Instead, he said, hate crime laws send a clear message that society does not tolerate attacks on minorities. '' Levin said that his research indicated that homosexuals suffered higher rates of violent crime than the population at large. ``With other crimes, violence is a means to an end. With hate crimes, the violence becomes an unstoppable goal,'' Levin said. Citing the need for hate crime laws to send a clear message to gay bashers, Levin said: ``The discourse in society leaves many of these people to believe that what they are doing is socially acceptable.
