summary: 
 On Saturday, at the University of Wyoming's annual homecoming parade, ``Pistol Pete'' and his uniformed brass band were overshadowed by a larger group of marchers _ 450 people, many wearing yellow armbands and carrying signs in support of the 21-year-old student, Matthew Shepard, who suffered severe head injuries in the attack last week. With passersby spontaneously joining the protest group, two women held another sign that read, ``No Hate Crimes in Wyoming. ``We live in the Equality State,'' Shannon Rexroat wrote Friday in a special edition of the Branding Iron, the campus newspaper. Referring to Wyoming's pioneer heritage as the first state to grant women the right to vote, Ms. Rexroat, the campus newspaper's editor added: ``That means nothing to me anymore. We live in a state where a young man was brutally beaten because he is gay. Under a brace of pistols, an advertising appeal for a state history museum had been changed, he said, from ``Shoot a Day or Two,'' to ``Shoot a Gay or Two. '' Clinton urged Congress to pass the federal Hate Crimes Prevention Act, saying, ``There is nothing more important to the future of this country than our standing together against intolerance, prejudice and violent bigotry. '' Wyoming is one of 10 states that does not have a hate crime law. ``He has always strongly felt that all people are the same, regardless of their sexual preference, race or religion. '' Noting that their son was born prematurely and that his ``life has often been a struggle,'' they added, ``He is physically short in stature, but we believe he is a giant when it comes to respecting the worth of others.

 anti-summary: 
 ``We live in the Equality State,'' Shannon Rexroat wrote Friday in a special edition of the Branding Iron, the campus newspaper. We live in a state where a young man was brutally beaten because he is gay. Jamie Lewis, another editor, said that on Friday he was handing out copies of the special edition when a passerby backed away from him and used an anti-gay epithet. But returning a month later, he found the message had not been erased. Then, the Laramie police say, the pair kidnapped Shepard, pistol-whipped him with a .357 Magnum and left him tied to a ranch fence for 18 hours until a passing bicyclist spotted Shepard, who was unconscious. President Clinton has condemned the attack, saying on Saturday, ``I was deeply grieved by the act of violence perpetrated against Matthew Shepard. '' Wyoming is one of 10 states that does not have a hate crime law. But he also complained about the massive attention by the national media. The young man completed high school at a boarding school in Lugano, Switzerland, where he learned Italian and German. On Saturday, his parents, Dennis and Judy Shepard, released a statement from Fort Collins thanking ``the American public for their kind thoughts about Matthew.

 textrank summary:
  As a gay college student lay hospitalized in critical condition after a severe beating here, this small city, which bills itself as ``Wyoming's hometown,'' wrestled with its attitudes towards gay men. ``Hate is not a Small Town Value _ No to Violence and Evil,'' read one sign, as watchers applauded. Referring to Wyoming's pioneer heritage as the first state to grant women the right to vote, Ms. Rexroat, the campus newspaper's editor added: ``That means nothing to me anymore. We live in a state where a young man was brutally beaten because he is gay. Last week's brutal assault bubbled out of an ongoing climate of hostility toward gay men and lesbians, leaders of the local Unitarian church said in a letter published Sunday in the city's newspaper, The Laramie Daily Boomerang. '' Turley, who is gay and said he only came out after he had left Wyoming, said that he immediately complained to the museum. On Sunday, the Laramie police said that McKinney had been arrested on Thursday at the same hospital in Fort Collins where Shepard was being treated. President Clinton has condemned the attack, saying on Saturday, ``I was deeply grieved by the act of violence perpetrated against Matthew Shepard. '' Wyoming is one of 10 states that does not have a hate crime law. The latest attempt died in the state Legislature in Cheyenne in February.
