summary: 
 Laramie police say the primary motive was robbery, although court papers filed Friday indicate Shepard's homosexuality may also have been a factor. '' Shepard, who spoke Arabic and German, studied at a boarding school in Switzerland before moving back to the United States to attend the University of Wyoming, the alma mater of his father, an oil rig safety inspector in Saudi Arabia. Accustomed to life in Europe and Denver, this foreign language student who wanted to become a diplomat found himself living in this isolated city of 27,000 people. Set in a treeless landscape defined by barbed wire fences, grazing cattle and a busy freight railroad line, Laramie is a town where pickup trucks outnumber sport utility vehicles, where fall entertainment revolves around this Saturday's homecoming football game and the start of the hunting season in the nearby Medicine Bow mountains. '' Shepard joined the campus gay association at the university within days. ``He definitely wasn't drunk when he came in,'' recalled the bartender, Matt Galloway. '' Calvin Rerucha, the county attorney, charged in court documents today that McKinney and Henderson posed as homosexuals and lured Shepard out to McKinney's pickup truck just after midnight early Wednesday. Beating him inside the truck, the pair drove him one mile southeast to an isolated part of a new rural subdivision, the County Attorney's report charged. There, it said, the men tied their captive to a post-and-rail fence and pistol-whipped him with a .357 magnum ``while he begged for his life. The police commander said that when his officers arrested the two men on Thursday, they found in McKinney's pickup truck a .357 magnum pistol covered with blood and Shepard's shoes and credit card.

 anti-summary: 
 Shepard's friends call the attack a hate crime. '' A few hours before he was beaten, Shepard, a slight 5-foot, 2-inch man who wore braces on his teeth, had attended a meeting of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgendered Association, said Walter Boulden, a friend of Shepard's. '' ``Now, he is in a coma,'' continued Boulden, who visited his friend at a hospital in Fort Collins, Colo., on Thursday. '' Shepard, who spoke Arabic and German, studied at a boarding school in Switzerland before moving back to the United States to attend the University of Wyoming, the alma mater of his father, an oil rig safety inspector in Saudi Arabia. Matthew Shepard was born in Casper, the capital of Wyoming's oil belt, and spent much of his youth there. ``Wyoming is not really gay friendly,'' Marv Johnson, executive director of the Wyoming chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, said from Cheyenne. The police commander said that the two women helped the two men dump their bloody clothing, and that they reported hearing the men make anti-gay remarks. The police did not say what the other three did for a living. On Friday, friends and Laramie residents struggled to understand the incident. ``If I were a homosexual in Laramie, I would hang low, very low,'' said Carla Brown, manager of the Fireside.

 textrank summary:
  At first, the passing bicyclist thought the crumpled form lashed to a ranch fence was a scarecrow. But when he stopped, he found the burned, battered and nearly lifeless body of Matthew Shepard, an openly gay college student who had been tied to the fence 18 hours earlier. On Friday, the 22-year-old University of Wyoming student was in a coma in critical condition. ``He was sitting at the bar, having a beer, when two men came up and talked to him,'' Boulden, a 46-year-old university lecturer of social work here, said today between tears. '' ``Now, he is in a coma,'' continued Boulden, who visited his friend at a hospital in Fort Collins, Colo., on Thursday. ``Wyoming is not really gay friendly,'' Marv Johnson, executive director of the Wyoming chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, said from Cheyenne. '' Shepard joined the campus gay association at the university within days. There, it said, the men tied their captive to a post-and-rail fence and pistol-whipped him with a .357 magnum ``while he begged for his life. The police did not say what the other three did for a living. ``Openly gay behavior is not only discouraged, it's dangerous.
