summary: 
  Matthew Wayne Shepard, the gay student who was beaten in the dead of night, tied to a fence and left to die alone, was mourned at his funeral Friday by 1,000 people, including many who had never met him. In death, he has become a national catalyst for a new drive to guarantee for gay people the right to physical safety. His death hit a nerve in the nation this week, eliciting dozens of candlelight vigils and rallies for tolerance, several statements of sadness from President Clinton, and a congressional resolution. He said the family was ``touched beyond measure'' by ``the thousands of e-mail comments, Web-site messages, phone calls and cards offering help, consolation, sympathy and support. Others traveled here, one driving from as far away as New Jersey, out of a sense of solidarity. ``I've had a pit in my heart and my stomach since I heard this,'' said Steve Pietrangelo, who drove 300 miles to wait three hours in cold rain and snow to attend the funeral of a man he never met. In Casper, a conservative city of 51,000, located in the heart of Wyoming's oil belt, tolerance has become the watchword. '' On that afternoon, Kreifels, an 18-year-old architectural engineering student, had nearly completed a rigorous six-mile ride on a mountain bike up and down Cactus Canyon, in public lands east of Laramie. Kreifels recalled in an interview Thursday his only mishap of the ride, ``I hit this big limestone rock and did one over the handlebars. '' Dusting himself off and looking around in the fading light of the day, Kreifels recalled, ``I noticed something out of my eye that looked like a scarecrow.

 anti-summary: 
 '' As the first snowstorm of the fall blanketed Casper, fresh flowers filled the red brick church here where Shepard had been baptized as a teen-ager and where he once wore the white robes of an Episcopal acolyte. Royce Brown, the pastor of St. Mark's, in a eulogy. '' Shepard, a 21-year-old freshman at the University of Wyoming, had dreamed of working one day for human rights. '' In one of the largest rallies, about 1,000 people, including members of Congress of both parties, gathered on the steps of the Capitol in Washington to condemn Shepherd's killing and to urge passage of a federal bill that would add extra penalties to crimes motivated by a victim's sexual orientation, gender or disability. But mourners stood in front of them, singing ``Amazing Grace'' and holding umbrellas to block the sight of the spectacle from friends and family members entering the church. At the University of Wyoming this fall, football players will wear yellow and green stickers on their helmets in memory of Shepard. Organizers said that yellow signifies tolerance and green symbolizes peace. ``Prejudice against homosexuals is just as redneck as anti-black bias,'` The Casper Star-Tribune, Wyoming's largest newspaper, wrote in its main editorial on Sunday. '' In a week of spiritual reflection, Aaron Kreifels, the University of Wyoming freshman who found his battered classmate Oct. 7, attributed the chance discovery to ``God's plan. ``Sometimes I wonder why I found him alive, if he was going to die,'' Kreifels reflected, before traveling to spend this weekend at home with his parents in Grand Island, Neb.

 textrank summary:
  Matthew Wayne Shepard, the gay student who was beaten in the dead of night, tied to a fence and left to die alone, was mourned at his funeral Friday by 1,000 people, including many who had never met him. ``Matt believed that if he had made one person's life better, he had succeeded,'' his cousin, the Rev. Royce Brown, the pastor of St. Mark's, in a eulogy. In death, he has become a national catalyst for a new drive to guarantee for gay people the right to physical safety. '' Before the funeral, about a dozen protesters, largely from Kansas and Texas, waved signs with anti-homosexual messages. With flags at Casper's public schools flying at half-staff Friday, many mourners were his old classmates. '' Touching people of all walks of life, Shepard's murder has elicited calls for tolerance of homosexuals from unexpected quarters. ``Violence against our homosexual friends and neighbors has created a most un-American climate of fear in Wyoming and the rest of the nation. '' ``Matt was very short and hard to hug,'' Marsden recalled of the young man who had grown up in Casper. ``Sometimes I wonder why I found him alive, if he was going to die,'' Kreifels reflected, before traveling to spend this weekend at home with his parents in Grand Island, Neb.
