summary: 
  For the first time in decades, Congress and the White House negotiated tax and spending legislation this year with the budget in surplus. The result was chaos. The lawmakers were never able to agree on a budget resolution _ the framework into which all the tax and spending bills are supposed to fit. This had not happened since congressional budget procedures were established in 1974. Then, without the discipline of such an overall plan, the Senate and the House could not pass eight of the 13 spending bills needed to keep the government running. Finally, they lumped all eight bills together this week and announced an agreement. But plenty of politicians _ President George Bush, to name one _ lost their jobs in the process. This year, with Democrats and Republicans alike claiming victory, the burning issue was how to parcel out the candy. They involved delicate policy issues like needle exchanges, contraception, global warming, immigration and the census. ``The temptation,'' said L. Ari Fleischer, spokesman for the House Ways and Means Committee, ``is to grab the loot and spend it.

 anti-summary: 
  For the first time in decades, Congress and the White House negotiated tax and spending legislation this year with the budget in surplus. This had not happened since congressional budget procedures were established in 1974. This will use up more than one-quarter of the anticipated budget surplus in the current fiscal year. This will actually raise a small amount of revenue in the next five years _ the period covered by budget accounting _ but it will make the picture considerably worse in later years. As hard as it was to negotiate a budget in the bad old days of budget deficits, say the politicians involved, it was exponentially more difficult this year. Others wanted to spend large sums on highways. ``In budget terms,'' said Robert Reischauer, a former director of the congressional budget office, ``this is like the end of the Cold War. '' There are other differences as well in the way things were negotiated with the budget in a surplus. But that did not make it easier to reach an agreement. In Congress, there is no consensus on these matters.

 textrank summary:
  For the first time in decades, Congress and the White House negotiated tax and spending legislation this year with the budget in surplus. The lawmakers were never able to agree on a budget resolution _ the framework into which all the tax and spending bills are supposed to fit. This had not happened since congressional budget procedures were established in 1974. This will use up more than one-quarter of the anticipated budget surplus in the current fiscal year. This year, some members of Congress wanted to use the surplus for a big tax cut. The Democrats had their own ideas about the budget, and President Clinton laid down his marker about saving the surplus until a way was found to shore up the Social Security system. ``In budget terms,'' said Robert Reischauer, a former director of the congressional budget office, ``this is like the end of the Cold War. '' There are other differences as well in the way things were negotiated with the budget in a surplus. Republicans, for the most part, opposed tax increases and favored cutting spending on social programs. For the politicians, the new way is more fun.
