summary: 
 Negotiators ended a late-night session without resolving disagreements over not just education, but the census and contraceptives. The president insists that the money be spent to hire 100,000 teachers across the country so that the average class can be reduced to 18 students. Republicans, railing against ``Beltway bureaucrats,'' say that local school districts should decide how the money is spent, whether it be for teachers or computers. As the two sides broke Tuesday night, White House chief of staff Erskine Bowles, the president's top negotiator, emerged from the session saying: ``We don't have a deal. '' He added: ``There are still some open issues'' upon which no agreement has been reached, but he sounded optimistic about a session scheduled for Wednesday morning. ``I think we've got a chance of wrapping up tomorrow,'' he said. They have given themselves another deadline of midnight Wednesday to wrap up about $500 billion worth of spending items, but they could easily extend that deadline another day or two. They missed having spending bills in place for the Oct. 1 start of the fiscal year, providing temporary financing for the federal government through Oct. 9, then Oct. 12, then Wednesday. He said that the president appeared to be getting his way on some issues but that what he really seemed to be winning was the war of public relations. But the fact that the two sides are finally talking about it now indicates that they are covering the full range of budget matters that need to be resolved.

 anti-summary: 
 On education, the issue that President Clinton has propelled to the forefront and on which Republicans do not want to appear recalcitrant, both sides have agreed to spend more than $1 billion but not on how to spend it. We made some good progress. House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Bowles met for much of the day in the speaker's office, shuttling in and out of ante-rooms with their lieutenants but giving few clues about the nitty-gritty details of their talks. As they worked through several issues, Republican leaders appeared to be calculating the differences in their own party that might sour a final deal when it arrives on the House floor _ more of a concern than the Senate floor because the Senate has fewer differences among its Republicans and with the White House. And Democrats on Tuesday expressed concern over some White House positions, on issues like the census and an apparent compromise with Republicans on aid for farmers. One would require federal health plans to cover contraceptives. On several touchy environmental issues that have prompted repeated veto threats from the White House, the two sides appeared to be opting for compromise over confrontation, with several disputes resolved. But a few particularly difficult issues remained under negotiation. A compromise was struck between the White House and Alaskan lawmakers on logging in the Tongass National Forest. But compromise still eluded them on the question of building a road through a wilderness refuge to connect two communities in Alaska. 

 textrank summary:
  Struggling to meet their fourth deadline over the federal budget, congressional Republicans and White House officials wrestled Tuesday with their differences over education, the most politically high-stakes element of the budget battle. On education, the issue that President Clinton has propelled to the forefront and on which Republicans do not want to appear recalcitrant, both sides have agreed to spend more than $1 billion but not on how to spend it. Republicans, railing against ``Beltway bureaucrats,'' say that local school districts should decide how the money is spent, whether it be for teachers or computers. Some of the other central issues, like financing for the International Monetary Fund, were all but nailed down, but neither side was ready to declare a final deal until all the other elements of the budget package were in place. The administration said such money would come from corresponding cuts elsewhere in the budget, but conservatives say it comes from raiding the surplus. '' Nonetheless, McIntosh suggested that he could vote for a final accord. '' Others were distressed, particularly about two contraceptive issues. The plan covers five specific types of contraception. Democrats like Rep. Nita Lowey, D-N.Y., who introduced the contraceptive plan in the House, said she strongly objected to Coburn's position. Republican leaders like the idea of postponing a decision but say that financing should be restricted only for the Census Bureau.
