summary: 
  Some conservatives sounded notes of discord Friday over the federal spending agreement, but they also said they would probably vote for the $500 billion package because it boosted defense spending and provided aid to farmers. House Speaker Newt Gingrich and other members from Georgia, a major peanut-producing state, are fighting the proposal, which would force airlines to ban peanuts within three rows of someone with an allergy. The budget was due Oct. 1, the start of the new fiscal year. Only a handful of top-level bargainers _ including Gingrich, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott and White House chief of staff Erskine Bowles _ were in the room for the final deal. Almost everyone on Capitol Hill expects the budget to pass eventually, with the biggest defections coming from conservatives who object to the $20 billion taken from the surplus to address so-called emergencies and for the package's failure to offer voters a serious tax cut. The lag time before the bill is officially closed is making some conservatives nervous that more members will try to add provisions that will further expand a bill they already consider overly bloated. And some worry that once the hometown pork that is stuffed into the bill is publicly revealed, voters could put pressure on members not to support it. Hog farmers in his district, whose biggest customers were Japan and China, had been hit hard by the collapse of Asian markets. And he noted that the Republicans had blocked several items, including needle-exchange programs in the District of Columbia, national education testing and U.S. contributions to a United Nations program that pays for family planning in China, which many in Congress object to because China has a policy of coercing abortions and forcing sterilization. '' Also angry at the rushed endgame was Rep. Gene Taylor, D-Miss., who took to the House floor and said he could not support the final bill.

 anti-summary: 
  Some conservatives sounded notes of discord Friday over the federal spending agreement, but they also said they would probably vote for the $500 billion package because it boosted defense spending and provided aid to farmers. That is now being crafted by the chairmen of the spending committees and their aides, who said Friday that there were still disputes that needed to be resolved and that the final document could run to more than 3,000 pages. My position is, hold the nose and vote yes. We have no tax cuts and far too much spending that I oppose, but that's the nature of compromise. '' Souder said he liked the extra money for defense spending, and he liked the price supports for farmers. I think we would have gotten a tax cut, but for the scandal. He cited a $9 billion increase in defense spending. I think it's the process that gives the president the ability to stonewall until the very end and then hold us for ransom. The Republican leadership in the House and Senate did a good job of limiting the highway robbery, but it's still gone too far beyond the spending caps. We can stay a little bit longer.

 textrank summary:
 However, no one can vote on the package just yet, because it is not finished. That is now being crafted by the chairmen of the spending committees and their aides, who said Friday that there were still disputes that needed to be resolved and that the final document could run to more than 3,000 pages. But several conservatives said that despite these problems, they expected to support the bill anyway. My position is, hold the nose and vote yes. We have no tax cuts and far too much spending that I oppose, but that's the nature of compromise. Several Republicans said that the bill seemed skewed in favor of the Democrats. ``He was sucking up to the liberal Democrats so they would support him in impeachment. Gingrich said the agreement was the best that could be achieved ``when you have a conservative Republican Congress and a liberal Democratic president. Rep. David McIntosh, R-Ind., a leader of conservatives in the House, had denounced the bill earlier as a Great Society type of big-spending program. ``I'm going to urge my colleagues to vote `no,' '' Taylor said.
