summary: 
  Amid a flurry of last minute preparations, the fledgling Palestinian Authority prepared Thursday for a milestone on the road to maturity: its own airport. As part of the latest Mideast peace accord, Israeli and Palestinian officials were to sign a protocol for the airport Friday and Palestinian negotiators said Gaza International Airport would open Sunday. The airport has been nearly completed for months. Officials said Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat may travel by car to Egypt in order to fly into the airport. Egypt's Middle East News Agency said the first plane to land would be carrying Egypt's health minister and several doctors bearing medical supplies as gifts. After touring the airport Thursday, a U.S. official said more work was needed to be done before the airport was ready for Clinton. ``It may be a landing site for President Clinton, but we're not confirming,'' said the official who spoke on condition of anonymity.

 anti-summary: 
  Amid a flurry of last minute preparations, the fledgling Palestinian Authority prepared Thursday for a milestone on the road to maturity: its own airport. As part of the latest Mideast peace accord, Israeli and Palestinian officials were to sign a protocol for the airport Friday and Palestinian negotiators said Gaza International Airport would open Sunday. The airport has been nearly completed for months. On Thursday, officials added a few extra touches of yellow paint and fresh flowers. Israel, which will oversee security at the airport, has forbidden its own citizens from using the airport initially, Israel's Channel 2 TV said. After touring the airport Thursday, a U.S. official said more work was needed to be done before the airport was ready for Clinton. The airport will be the first unfettered access route Palestinians will have out of the Gaza Strip. 

 textrank summary:
 As part of the latest Mideast peace accord, Israeli and Palestinian officials were to sign a protocol for the airport Friday and Palestinian negotiators said Gaza International Airport would open Sunday. The airport has been nearly completed for months. It was not clear who would be the first arrivals at the airport. Others hinted the first international flight may be reserved for U.S. President Bill Clinton who is scheduled to visit Gaza in December. Israel, which will oversee security at the airport, has forbidden its own citizens from using the airport initially, Israel's Channel 2 TV said. After touring the airport Thursday, a U.S. official said more work was needed to be done before the airport was ready for Clinton. The airport will be the first unfettered access route Palestinians will have out of the Gaza Strip. 
