summary: 
  Less than a week before U.S. President Bill Clinton is to arrive for a visit meant to bolster a new Israeli-Palestinian peace accord, the two sides exchanged angry accusations Sunday over Jewish settlements and street clashes. Ahmed Qureia, speaker of the Palestinian parliament, warned of possible violence if Israel continues to expand settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, where the Palestinians hope to establish a state. Meanwhile, at a meeting of the Israeli Cabinet, ministers expressed dismay over an outbreak of street clashes between Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli troops in the West Bank. ``The Palestinians have been asked to immediately stop the violence and incitement to violence,'' the Cabinet said in a statement. Demonstrators threw stones at Israeli troops, who responded with rubber bullets and tear gas. The past week's protests grew out of an increasingly bitter dispute over Palestinian prisoners held by Israel. Israel last month freed 250 of 750 prisoners it is to release under the Wye accords, but most were criminals. At the gathering, the PNC and other Palestinians in attendance are to reaffirm the nullification of clauses in their national charter that call for Israel's destruction. Israel has demanded that the Palestinians hold an actual vote at the meeting rather than simply proclaiming the charter changed, but the Palestinians on Sunday repeated their objections to that. But some commentators suggested the visit was proving a polarizing force instead. ``He is coming to promote the peace process... but his visit's only actual result is a sharpening of the differences,'' Yosef Lapid wrote in Sunday's editions of the Maariv newspaper. In Israel, increasing concern is being voiced over Clinton's planned visit to Gaza, the first ever by a sitting U.S. president. At Sunday's Israeli Cabinet meeting, a shouting match broke out over the issue, according to Israel radio. The United States has repeatedly said the visit is not intended as an endorsement of Palestinian statehood, but the Palestinians see it as a powerful boost to their sovereignty hopes.

 anti-summary: 
 ``If settlement activity continues, then all means of resistance are open,'' Qureia, who is also known as Abu Ala, told reporters in the West Bank town of Ramallah. Since the signing of a land-for-security accord, Jewish settlers have accelerated the establishment of makeshift communities on West Bank hilltops, in an explicit bid to keep the land from being turned over to the Palestinians. ``The Palestinians have been asked to immediately stop the violence and incitement to violence,'' the Cabinet said in a statement. Israel says Yasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority is orchestrating the street fighting. The Palestinians deny that. The past week's protests grew out of an increasingly bitter dispute over Palestinian prisoners held by Israel. Israel last month freed 250 of 750 prisoners it is to release under the Wye accords, but most were criminals. The Palestinians are demanding that so-called security prisoners _ those being held for anti-Israel activity _ be released instead. ``They haven't the right to give us instructions,'' Arafat said Sunday as he returned to Gaza following a trip to Europe. Clinton's visit to Israel and the Palestinian lands, which is to begin Saturday, is meant to provide impetus to the U.S.-brokered peace accords and encourage both sides to stick to a timetable for compliance. In Israel, increasing concern is being voiced over Clinton's planned visit to Gaza, the first ever by a sitting U.S. president. At Sunday's Israeli Cabinet meeting, a shouting match broke out over the issue, according to Israel radio. '' Silvan Shalom, the science minister, reportedly yelled at Netanyahu. Arafat adviser Ahmed Tibi said on Israeli television that the invitation for a Clinton visit came from Israel and was ``warmly welcomed'' by the Palestinians. 

 textrank summary:
  Less than a week before U.S. President Bill Clinton is to arrive for a visit meant to bolster a new Israeli-Palestinian peace accord, the two sides exchanged angry accusations Sunday over Jewish settlements and street clashes. ``If settlement activity continues, then all means of resistance are open,'' Qureia, who is also known as Abu Ala, told reporters in the West Bank town of Ramallah. Since the signing of a land-for-security accord, Jewish settlers have accelerated the establishment of makeshift communities on West Bank hilltops, in an explicit bid to keep the land from being turned over to the Palestinians. Meanwhile, at a meeting of the Israeli Cabinet, ministers expressed dismay over an outbreak of street clashes between Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli troops in the West Bank. ``The Palestinians have been asked to immediately stop the violence and incitement to violence,'' the Cabinet said in a statement. At least two Palestinians were injured Sunday in a confrontation outside the Jewish settlement of Ariel in the northern West Bank. Israel says Yasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority is orchestrating the street fighting. Israel has demanded that the Palestinians hold an actual vote at the meeting rather than simply proclaiming the charter changed, but the Palestinians on Sunday repeated their objections to that. ``They haven't the right to give us instructions,'' Arafat said Sunday as he returned to Gaza following a trip to Europe. Clinton's visit to Israel and the Palestinian lands, which is to begin Saturday, is meant to provide impetus to the U.S.-brokered peace accords and encourage both sides to stick to a timetable for compliance. But some commentators suggested the visit was proving a polarizing force instead. In Israel, increasing concern is being voiced over Clinton's planned visit to Gaza, the first ever by a sitting U.S. president. The United States has repeatedly said the visit is not intended as an endorsement of Palestinian statehood, but the Palestinians see it as a powerful boost to their sovereignty hopes. Arafat adviser Ahmed Tibi said on Israeli television that the invitation for a Clinton visit came from Israel and was ``warmly welcomed'' by the Palestinians. 
