summary: 
  A last-minute alarm forced NASA to halt Thursday's launching of the space shuttle Endeavour, on a mission to start assembling the international space station. This was the first time in three years, and 19 flights, that a shuttle countdown had been stopped after the spaceship was fueled and the crew aboard the craft and ready to go. ``We want to err on the conservative side,'' Ralph Roe, launch director at the Kennedy Space Center, said at a news conference after the sudden halt of the countdown just 19 seconds before liftoff. But the length of the so-called launching window was, as planned, unusually short _ only 10 minutes. The show-stopper arose about four minutes before liftoff when the computer in the space shuttle set off a master alarm. Officials eventually decided that the pressure drop was insignificant, and they resolved to press ahead. The six astronauts began to emerge from the shuttle an hour later and ultimately headed for bed to rest up for another attempt early Friday. 

 anti-summary: 
 Another attempt for Endeavour and its crew of six astronauts is scheduled for Friday at 3:36 a.m. This was the first time in three years, and 19 flights, that a shuttle countdown had been stopped after the spaceship was fueled and the crew aboard the craft and ready to go. The uncommon delay prompted frowns and furrowed brows here, although officials stressed that it was entirely warranted. ``We want to err on the conservative side,'' Ralph Roe, launch director at the Kennedy Space Center, said at a news conference after the sudden halt of the countdown just 19 seconds before liftoff. Officials eventually decided that the pressure drop was insignificant, and they resolved to press ahead. But by then it was too late: time had run out for one of the procedures needed to keep the shuttle's fuel supercold. So the countdown was aborted just 19 seconds from blastoff.

 textrank summary:
  A last-minute alarm forced NASA to halt Thursday's launching of the space shuttle Endeavour, on a mission to start assembling the international space station. Another attempt for Endeavour and its crew of six astronauts is scheduled for Friday at 3:36 a.m. This was the first time in three years, and 19 flights, that a shuttle countdown had been stopped after the spaceship was fueled and the crew aboard the craft and ready to go. ``We want to err on the conservative side,'' Ralph Roe, launch director at the Kennedy Space Center, said at a news conference after the sudden halt of the countdown just 19 seconds before liftoff. But by then it was too late: time had run out for one of the procedures needed to keep the shuttle's fuel supercold. So the countdown was aborted just 19 seconds from blastoff. The six astronauts began to emerge from the shuttle an hour later and ultimately headed for bed to rest up for another attempt early Friday. 
