summary: 
 Still, his appearance didn't silence the growing number of calls for his resignation. ``There will be no turmoil if Yeltsin leaves the political arena. Yeltsin has a history of health problems, and underwent heart bypass surgery in 1996. ``I can't even sneeze'' without someone making a fuss about it, he joked with Primakov during a meeting Wednesday. '' The upper house of parliament was busy voting on a motion saying he should resign. It did not pass because it required a simple majority of 90 votes. ``I feel for him. He's clearly not a healthy person,'' film director Vladimir Khotinenko was quoted as saying by the daily Kommersant. Yeltsin stumbled and had to be supported during his visit to Central Asia on Sunday and Monday. He canceled most of his public engagements, except for a state dinner at which he made rambling remarks and a news conference that he abruptly cut short. 

 anti-summary: 
  Weakened by a cold yet animated, President Boris Yeltsin defied doctors' orders and quashed rumors he is seriously ill by showing up unexpectedly at the Kremlin on Wednesday. Yeltsin, 67, has a respiratory infection that forced him to cut short his first foreign visit in months on Monday. Whenever Yeltsin falls ill, speculation arises about his ability to govern. Yeltsin has a history of health problems, and underwent heart bypass surgery in 1996. Still, he insists he has no major illnesses and plans to serve out the remaining two years of his term. ``There is no reason for rocking the boat and demanding anyone's resignation,'' Primakov said, according to the Interfax news agency. '' Yeltsin's resignation is highly unlikely. Many Russians view Yeltsin with increasing pity. ``It's time for him to step aside. He canceled most of his public engagements, except for a state dinner at which he made rambling remarks and a news conference that he abruptly cut short. 

 textrank summary:
 Still, his appearance didn't silence the growing number of calls for his resignation. Yeltsin, 67, has a respiratory infection that forced him to cut short his first foreign visit in months on Monday. The government is already in charge, (Prime Minister Yevgeny) Primakov is strong enough and has the support of the security services,'' said Yevgeny Volk, director of the Moscow office of the U.S.-based Heritage Foundation. In the Kremlin, Yeltsin discussed developments in Kosovo with Primakov, Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov and Defense Minister Igor Sergeyev, Russian news agencies said. The vote in the Federation Council, which is made up of regional leaders, was 79 to 18 in favor, Russian news agencies reported. The prime minister reiterated Wednesday that Yeltsin has no plans to resign or call early elections. ``I feel for him. '' Doctors ordered the president to stay in bed Tuesday and his spokesman, Dmitry Yakushkin, had said Yeltsin would not be in the office all week. Yeltsin stumbled and had to be supported during his visit to Central Asia on Sunday and Monday. He canceled most of his public engagements, except for a state dinner at which he made rambling remarks and a news conference that he abruptly cut short. 
