summary: 
 The address to Parliament was expected Wednesday, followed perhaps by Friday by the vote of confidence that will determine whether Prodi's 2 1/2-year-old, center-left alliance stands or falls. Prodi has said he would call a confidence vote if he lost the Communists' support. Armando Cossutta, leader of the moderate wing, resigned as party president Monday. ``And with the divisions in the left, this would mean a victory for the right. '' If the crisis comes to a confidence vote and Prodi loses, he would offer his resignation. He could ask Prodi or someone else to form a new government or he could call elections 2 1/2 years early, something most analysts think unlikely. It broke with Prodi over NATO expansion earlier this year and on sending troops into Albania last year. Prodi was even forced to resign a year ago after a bitter battle over spending cuts linked to the euro.

 anti-summary: 
 Armando Cossutta, leader of the moderate wing, resigned as party president Monday. He said the party's desertion of Prodi was ``wrong and dangerous,'' but at the same time promised to follow the party line. Once he does that, it is up to Scalfaro to decide what to do. Prodi's government has held together this long in large part because of the widely shared desire to see Italy qualify for participation in the 1999 debut of Europe's common currency, the euro. That happened earlier this year _ leaving the disparate allies without so clear a reason to stay together. Refoundation is not part of Prodi's center-left coalition, but the government needs its 34 votes to muster a majority in the lower house. It broke with Prodi over NATO expansion earlier this year and on sending troops into Albania last year. Prodi was even forced to resign a year ago after a bitter battle over spending cuts linked to the euro.

 textrank summary:
 Prodi has said he would call a confidence vote if he lost the Communists' support. '' The break with Prodi's government divided Refoundation. ``We are in a very complicated political crisis which could lead to early elections,'' Cossutta told reporters Monday. '' If the crisis comes to a confidence vote and Prodi loses, he would offer his resignation. Once he does that, it is up to Scalfaro to decide what to do. Prodi leads Italy's 55th government since World War II. Refoundation is not part of Prodi's center-left coalition, but the government needs its 34 votes to muster a majority in the lower house. It broke with Prodi over NATO expansion earlier this year and on sending troops into Albania last year.
