summary: 
  Italian politics have long been enlivened by baroque feuds and shifting alliances. And that time-honored tradition may have won the embattled government of Prime Minister Romano Prodi a momentary reprieve. ``Prodi must realize that his majority no longer exists,'' said Armando Cossuta, chairman of the Communist Refounding Party, a fringe group that broke with mainstream Communists after they overhauled the party following the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. When Bertinotti forced Prodi to offer his resignation last year over proposed budget cuts, the rank and file protested, and he was forced to backpedal. Without it, the Italian central bank is unlikely to cut its key lending rates, something Italy must do to get in line with Germany and other bigger European neighbors before the introduction Jan. 1 of the single European currency, the euro. But the fragile center-left coalition has held together mostly because Italians were united for the last two years in an effort to reduce spending, inflation and government borrowing to meet the requirements for membership in the euro plan. But Prodi has repeatedly said he will govern only with the center-left majority that elected him in 1996. ``We wouldn't want this majority to get stained like Monica Lewinsky's dress,'' he said. 

 anti-summary: 
  Italian politics have long been enlivened by baroque feuds and shifting alliances. And that time-honored tradition may have won the embattled government of Prime Minister Romano Prodi a momentary reprieve. '' Cossuta was clearly unwilling to join the most hard-line wing of his party in withdrawing support from Prodi and risk being branded as having torpedoed the first leftist Italian government in 50 years. Prodi met Monday with President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro and coalition leaders to devise a strategy. After two and a half years in office, his government is the second-longest in the postwar era. Prodi's backers are hoping that enough members of the Communist Refounding Party will break ranks and follow Cossutta to save the coalition. Cossiga's party came to Prodi's rescue in June, when the hard-line leftists refused to back Prodi on NATO expansion. Cossiga also suggested to reporters Monday that he would not welcome any invitations to join a coalition led by Prodi.

 textrank summary:
 And that time-honored tradition may have won the embattled government of Prime Minister Romano Prodi a momentary reprieve. ``Nevertheless we should do everything possible, until the last minute, to save this government and avoid this crisis. But the leader of the Communist Refounding Party in Parliament, Fausto Bertinotti, seems to have no such compunctions. Until now, however, the communist rank and file have disagreed with that view. Prodi met Monday with President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro and coalition leaders to devise a strategy. Or he could seek to form a new majority without the Communists by seeking an alliance with the small center-right party of Francesco Cossiga. Cossiga's party came to Prodi's rescue in June, when the hard-line leftists refused to back Prodi on NATO expansion. ``We wouldn't want this majority to get stained like Monica Lewinsky's dress,'' he said. 
