summary: 
  Cambodia's ruling party responded Tuesday to criticisms of its leader in the U.S. Congress with a lengthy defense of strongman Hun Sen's human rights record. The killings of nearly 100 of Ranariddh's supporters documented by U.N. human rights workers in the aftermath of the coup were dismissed by the CPP as mostly fabrications meant to distort the political situation. Ranariddh and his opposition ally, Sam Rainsy, refused to accept the election results, alleging widespread intimidation and fraud by the CPP. The opposition claims the grenade attack was staged as an excuse to begin the crackdown. After a series of border clashes, the Khmer Rouge was ousted from power by an invading Vietnamese army that set up a surrogate Cambodian communist government later led by Hun Sen. ``They must not make unjust accusations against those who led the struggle to liberate the people from genocide,'' it added. 

 anti-summary: 
 Ranariddh and his opposition ally, Sam Rainsy, refused to accept the election results, alleging widespread intimidation and fraud by the CPP. U.N. human rights workers later discovered more than 20 bodies _ many bearing signs of torture _ in and around the capital, prompting speculation that the death toll could be much higher. The opposition claims the grenade attack was staged as an excuse to begin the crackdown. ``The leaders of illegal demonstrations are the ones who must bear responsibility for the consequences deriving from the protest,'' the CPP said Tuesday, referring to the deadly violence as ``minor incidents. The Khmer Rouge was responsible for the deaths of as many as 2 million people during the guerrilla group's 1975-79 rule of Cambodia. ``They must not make unjust accusations against those who led the struggle to liberate the people from genocide,'' it added. 

 textrank summary:
  Cambodia's ruling party responded Tuesday to criticisms of its leader in the U.S. Congress with a lengthy defense of strongman Hun Sen's human rights record. It also repeated claims that the prince's party had moved rebel soldiers into Phnom Penh, a contention that remains unproved. Ranariddh and his core supporters did not return to Cambodia until a few months before an election in July this year that the ruling party narrowly won. Ranariddh and his opposition ally, Sam Rainsy, refused to accept the election results, alleging widespread intimidation and fraud by the CPP. '' The ruling party also reminded the United States that Washington supported a Cambodian exile government dominated by the brutal Khmer Rouge in the 1980s. The ruling party accused U.S. policy-makers of not taking timely action to save the Cambodian people from the Khmer Rouge.
