summary: 
  Cambodian politicians expressed hope Monday that a new partnership between the parties of strongman Hun Sen and his rival, Prince Norodom Ranariddh, in a coalition government would not end in more violence. The prince fled Cambodia and did not return until a few months before elections in July. ``This will not be a repetition of 1993 because there will not be two prime ministers,'' said Hun Sen aide Prak Sokhon, who attended last week's summit. '' Ranariddh said Saturday that the two parties agreed to keep the ministries of interior and defense under co-ministers. They will have to compromise to achieve results. In a letter to King Norodom Sihanouk released Monday, Sam Rainsy complained that Hun Sen had not responded to his queries on security, making it unsafe for his people to return for the reconvening of parliament. Authorities have called it an assassination attempt on Hun Sen. A police general investigating the attack said Monday that likely suspects have been identified, but he would not reveal names or their political affiliation. 

 anti-summary: 
 Hun Sen and Ranariddh, co-prime ministers in a coalition formed in 1993 after a landmark U.N.-sponsored election, often clashed over power-sharing and the integration of guerrilla fighters from the crumbling Khmer Rouge. Their arguments turned bloody last year when Hun Sen ousted Ranariddh in a coup. Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party narrowly won the polls, but a strong second-place finish by Ranariddh's FUNCINPEC gave the royalist party leverage in post-election negotiations. After a three-month impasse, they agreed last week to a coalition deal that will make Hun Sen sole prime minister and Ranariddh president of the National Assembly. ``This will not be a repetition of 1993 because there will not be two prime ministers,'' said Hun Sen aide Prak Sokhon, who attended last week's summit. '' Ranariddh's ally, Sam Rainsy, whose party placed a distant third in the election, was left out of last week's deal. In a letter to King Norodom Sihanouk released Monday, Sam Rainsy complained that Hun Sen had not responded to his queries on security, making it unsafe for his people to return for the reconvening of parliament.

 textrank summary:
 The prince fled Cambodia and did not return until a few months before elections in July. Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party narrowly won the polls, but a strong second-place finish by Ranariddh's FUNCINPEC gave the royalist party leverage in post-election negotiations. After a three-month impasse, they agreed last week to a coalition deal that will make Hun Sen sole prime minister and Ranariddh president of the National Assembly. The parties are to form working groups this week to divide remaining government posts and draft a constitutional amendment to form a new Senate. '' Ranariddh's ally, Sam Rainsy, whose party placed a distant third in the election, was left out of last week's deal. In a letter to King Norodom Sihanouk released Monday, Sam Rainsy complained that Hun Sen had not responded to his queries on security, making it unsafe for his people to return for the reconvening of parliament. Sam Rainsy said he had been told by Ranariddh that his party and former Khmer Rouge guerrillas had been implicated by Hun Sen in a rocket attack on the Sept. 24 opening of parliament.
