summary: 
 Hun Sen announced a government guarantee Wednesday of all politicians' safety and their right to conduct political activities ``in accordance with the laws in force. The alleged assassination attempt came during massive street demonstrations organized by the opposition after Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party narrowly won the election. Fearing for their safety, Sam Rainsy and his then-ally Prince Norodom Ranariddh led an exodus of opposition lawmakers out of Cambodia after parliament was ceremonially opened in late September. The two parties have formed three working groups to hammer out details of the agreement, including the establishment of a Senate to be the upper house of parliament.

 anti-summary: 
 Hun Sen announced a government guarantee Wednesday of all politicians' safety and their right to conduct political activities ``in accordance with the laws in force. Sam Rainsy, a staunch critic of Hun Sen, was forced to take refuge in a U.N. office in September to avoid arrest after Hun Sen accused him of being behind a plot against his life. The alleged assassination attempt came during massive street demonstrations organized by the opposition after Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party narrowly won the election. The opposition, alleging widespread fraud and intimidation, refused to accept the results of the polls.

 textrank summary:
  Worried that party colleagues still face arrest for their politics, opposition leader Sam Rainsy sought further clarification Friday of security guarantees promised by strongman Hun Sen. Sam Rainsy wrote in a letter to King Norodom Sihanouk that he was eager to attend the first session of the new National Assembly on Nov. 25, but complained that Hun Sen's assurances were not strong enough to ease concerns his party members may be arrested upon their return to Cambodia. Hun Sen announced a government guarantee Wednesday of all politicians' safety and their right to conduct political activities ``in accordance with the laws in force. Fearing for their safety, Sam Rainsy and his then-ally Prince Norodom Ranariddh led an exodus of opposition lawmakers out of Cambodia after parliament was ceremonially opened in late September. Sok An, representing Hun Sen's party, said Friday that one working group had completed its work on a joint political platform to be implemented by the new government.
