summary: 
 In a long-elusive compromise, opposition leader Prince Norodom Ranariddh will become president of the National Assembly resulting from disputed elections in July, even though Hun Sen's party holds a majority of 64 seats in the 122-member chamber. Chea Sim will still serve as acting head of state during the king's frequent absences from the country. ``The major political crisis in the country has been resolved and the political deadlock facing the nation has also come to an end,'' the king said in his statement. Pok Than, one of Ranariddh's negotiators, said the Senate would serve a mostly advisory role to the assembly. The two parties said that the assembly would convene again Nov. 25. It could also hasten Cambodia's entry into the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, put on hold last year after Hun Sen deposed Ranariddh as co-prime minister in a bloody coup. The king has powers to grant pardons, but has awaited agreement from Hun Sen in politically sensitive cases. The vote failed to put an end to instability that followed last year's coup. The opposition organized protests in Phnom Penh seeking Hun Sen's ouster that were violently dispersed.

 anti-summary: 
  Cambodia's bickering political parties broke a three-month deadlock Friday and agreed to a coalition government leaving strongman Hun Sen as sole prime minister, King Norodom Sihanouk announced. Instead, Sihanouk announced, the constitution will be modified to create a new Senate, which Chea Sim will head. Chea Sim will still serve as acting head of state during the king's frequent absences from the country. The senior Senate leaders will join those of the assembly, the prime minister and the country's top two Buddhist monks in a delicate balance of power on the council that will choose Cambodia's next king after Sihanouk dies. It could also hasten Cambodia's entry into the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, put on hold last year after Hun Sen deposed Ranariddh as co-prime minister in a bloody coup. Earlier, as both sides arrived at the Royal Palace for a second day of meetings, Sihanouk said they had agreed in principle to form a coalition and made ``important concessions. Sihanouk reported that Hun Sen responded positively to a request by Ranariddh for five of his key supporters to receive political pardons. The opposition organized protests in Phnom Penh seeking Hun Sen's ouster that were violently dispersed. Sam Rainsy, under investigation by a Phnom Penh court for his role in the demonstrations, has remained abroad.

 textrank summary:
 In a long-elusive compromise, opposition leader Prince Norodom Ranariddh will become president of the National Assembly resulting from disputed elections in July, even though Hun Sen's party holds a majority of 64 seats in the 122-member chamber. Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party dropped insistence on a joint assembly chairmanship shared by Ranariddh and party boss Chea Sim, the current speaker. ``The major political crisis in the country has been resolved and the political deadlock facing the nation has also come to an end,'' the king said in his statement. The agreement did not say how many seats there would be, nor how they would be divided. The two parties said that the assembly would convene again Nov. 25. Earlier, as both sides arrived at the Royal Palace for a second day of meetings, Sihanouk said they had agreed in principle to form a coalition and made ``important concessions. The CPP fell short of the two-thirds majority needed to form a government alone. The opposition organized protests in Phnom Penh seeking Hun Sen's ouster that were violently dispersed. His 15 seats in the 122-seat assembly are irrelevant to forming a working government. 
