summary: 
  A Russian Proton booster rocket carried the first part of the international space station into orbit Friday, heralding the start of a new era in international space colonization. Russian space officials and others cheered as ground control announced that the capsule had separated from its booster rocket and reached its first orbit at about 200 kilometers (125 miles) above the Earth. ``Success,'' shouted one exultant official some 10 minutes after the giant rocket blasted off and entered orbit. His Russian counterpart, Yuri Koptev, said the launch was a vital vindication for the troubled Russian space industry, proving it could play a major role in space operations. ``Today we made a truly epoch-making step to carry out this project. The launch went smoothly, with the rocket soaring into the cloudy sky above the central Asian steppes. The huge roar of the rocket reverberated for dozens of kilometers (miles) across the empty plain around the base. Engineers finished final preparations early Friday for the liftoff of the 24-ton module. The international space station, the U.S.-led successor to Russia's beleaguered Mir, involves 16 nations and is due to be completed by 2004. Zarya is to fly alone for two weeks before a rendezvous with the American space shuttle Endeavor, which is to be launched Dec. 3 carrying the Unity connecting module.

 anti-summary: 
 The heads of the space agencies of 16 nations participating in the project watched the lift-off from a distance of about 5 kilometers (3 miles). Russian and U.S. officials said the launch was ``flawless'' and the module performed well during initial tests. ``Now we only have 44 launches to go, about 1,000 hours of space walks and countless problems, but because of the trust and mutual respect ... the international space station is going to be a reality,'' NASA chief Daniel Goldin told a press conference after the launch. His Russian counterpart, Yuri Koptev, said the launch was a vital vindication for the troubled Russian space industry, proving it could play a major role in space operations. The Russian space industry is alive and well and is perfectly able to fulfill all of its commitments on the international space station,'' he said. The mood at the launch pad was tense before the launch, with space officials and workers anxiously making last-minute checks to ensure there were no problems. The launch of the Russian cargo module, which had been delayed for more than a year, ushers in a new era of cooperation among former space-race rivals. Zarya is designed to serve as a space tugboat in the early stages of the project, providing propulsion, power and communications. Zarya is to fly alone for two weeks before a rendezvous with the American space shuttle Endeavor, which is to be launched Dec. 3 carrying the Unity connecting module. The space station will not be inhabitable until at least early 2000, following the launch of a Russian crew module which is set to blast off next July or August.

 textrank summary:
  A Russian Proton booster rocket carried the first part of the international space station into orbit Friday, heralding the start of a new era in international space colonization. The heads of the space agencies of 16 nations participating in the project watched the lift-off from a distance of about 5 kilometers (3 miles). Russian and U.S. officials said the launch was ``flawless'' and the module performed well during initial tests. They cautioned that much work remains to be done to get the ambitious space station project up and working. ``Now we only have 44 launches to go, about 1,000 hours of space walks and countless problems, but because of the trust and mutual respect ... the international space station is going to be a reality,'' NASA chief Daniel Goldin told a press conference after the launch. His Russian counterpart, Yuri Koptev, said the launch was a vital vindication for the troubled Russian space industry, proving it could play a major role in space operations. The Russian space industry is alive and well and is perfectly able to fulfill all of its commitments on the international space station,'' he said. Zarya is designed to serve as a space tugboat in the early stages of the project, providing propulsion, power and communications. The launch of the first segment was postponed repeatedly, mainly because the chronically broke Russian space agency couldn't afford to complete another part of the station that is to go up later. The space station will not be inhabitable until at least early 2000, following the launch of a Russian crew module which is set to blast off next July or August.
