summary: 
 Yugoslavia has to defend itself if it was attacked. In Brussels, however, Holbrooke made clear that half-measures would not be enough to satisfy Washington and prevent a NATO attack. ``While the level of fighting may have abated temporarily, the capacity for its resumption is there,'' Holbrooke said after a meeting with NATO Secretary General Javier Solana and Supreme Allied Commander Europe Wesley K. Clark. ``We hope to make clear to president Milosevic and the people of Yugoslavia the extreme gravity of the situation. '' Fearing airstrikes, Yugoslav generals put the nation's air defense on high alert and moved some tanks and other heavy equipment out of Kosovo. On Sunday, Milosevic met with Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov and Defense Minister Igor Sergeyev, Serbian President Milan Milutinovic and Yugoslavia's top defense officials. Although the Russians are against using NATO force in Kosovo, Ivanov and Sergeyev said the airstrikes could occur ``if decisive measures are not immediately taken for a radical improvement of the situation,'' Foreign Ministry spokesman Vladimir Rakhmanin told the ITAR-Tass news agency. In Berlin, German Gen. Dieter Stoeckmann told German radio that NATO action could come ``within days. In the Kosovo capital Pristina, the KLA offered to help NATO forces if asked. KLA spokesman Jakup Krasniqi said in a statement published Monday by the Albanian language newspaper Bujku that ``we wish they (airstrikes) would become reality'' and ``we shall provide assistance... if it is asked of us.

 anti-summary: 
 In New York, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said ``systematic terror'' had been inflicted on Kosovo civilians within recent days and that Yugoslav forces were mostly responsible. '' One option could be for parliament to declare a state of emergency _ a step which could lead to a general mobilization of all military-aged men. Yugoslavia had repeatedly rejected such a mission to Kosovo until Yugoslav membership in the 54-nation organization is restored. A Western diplomat said up to 120 Yugoslav army armored vehicles, including tanks, have been pulled out. To avoid such an attack, Yugoslavia must end the hostilities, withdraw army and security forces, take urgent measures to overcome the humanitarian crisis, ensure that refugees can return home and take part in peace talks, he said. Serbian police and the Yugoslav army have routed separatist Kosovo Albanian rebels in the crackdown that began in late February. The conflict has killed hundreds _ most of them Albanian civilians _ and left more than 275,000 refugees. Although the United States and Europeans want an end to the fighting, they also oppose independence for Kosovo, fearing that could destabilize other Balkan countries with Albanian populations. '' Krasniqi accused ethnic Albanian politicians of having ``given up on independence'' and having become ``the servants of the enemy,'' by agreeing to accept autonomy but not independence. Ethnic Albanian political leaders have rejected the new interim government, which was drawn up without their participation.

 textrank summary:
  With the threat of NATO attack mounting, Yugoslavia's prime minister warned Monday the nation faces the ``immiment danger of war'' and claimed the government was taking steps to comply with international demands for peace in Kosovo. '' Meanwhile, Yugoslavia's prime minister told an emergency session of parliament Monday that the country ``is faced with the imminent danger of war. Yugoslavia had repeatedly rejected such a mission to Kosovo until Yugoslav membership in the 54-nation organization is restored. Bulatovic also claimed there was no longer any fighting in the rebellious, majority Albanian province. A Western diplomat said up to 120 Yugoslav army armored vehicles, including tanks, have been pulled out. To avoid such an attack, Yugoslavia must end the hostilities, withdraw army and security forces, take urgent measures to overcome the humanitarian crisis, ensure that refugees can return home and take part in peace talks, he said. In Berlin, German Gen. Dieter Stoeckmann told German radio that NATO action could come ``within days. '' Serb authorities appeared ready for compromise by installing an interim government in the rebellious province in Serbia, the dominant republic in Yugoslavia. '' Krasniqi accused ethnic Albanian politicians of having ``given up on independence'' and having become ``the servants of the enemy,'' by agreeing to accept autonomy but not independence. The council is composed of seven Serbs, five ethnic Albanians and the rest Turks and Muslims. 
