summary: 
  With NATO attacks said to be only days away, top U.S. envoy Richard Holbrooke delivered an 11th-hour warning Monday to Yugoslavia's president to halt his crackdown on ethnic Albanians in Kosovo or face airstrikes. But there was no sign that Slobodan Milosevic was backing down. Following his meeting with Holbrooke, Milosevic's office issued a statement denouncing NATO threats as a ``criminal act'' which favored separatist ethnic Albanian guerrillas. The statement, broadcast by government television, said there had been no fighting in the Serbian province for the past seven days and that the crisis represented no threat to other countries in the southern Balkans. The U.N. chief also said rebel forces of the Kosovo Liberation Army also were responsible for human rights violations, a charge the KLA quickly denied. Despite Annan's unwillingness to declare Serb noncompliance, State Department spokesman James Foley said the Clinton administration believed Milosevic had not met the conditions laid down by the Security Council. Briefing reporters in Washington, Foley cited the absence of a formal cease-fire, the failure to arrange a meaningful dialogue with ethnic Albanian leaders and the continued presence of ``major army units'' in southeastern Kosovo near Albania's border. Yugoslavia has to defend itself if it was attacked. The prime minister also said there was no longer any fighting in Kosovo, which has 2 million residents. He said five of the 10 special police units had been removed from Kosovo and the others had been returned to their barracks in the province.

 anti-summary: 
 But there was no sign that Slobodan Milosevic was backing down. Holbrooke said he planned to drive home to Milosevic ``the extreme gravity of the situation. In Washington, President Clinton expressed concern that Milosevic was ``playing the classic game of making false promises'' to avoid NATO military strikes. As Holbrooke tried to resolve the crisis through negotiations, British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said a decision on NATO military action was imminent. ``We are getting ready for NATO action and later this week we will expect a decision to be taken,'' Cook told reporters after a special session of the Cabinet called by Prime Minister Tony Blair. At the United Nations, Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Yugoslav forces had increased their attacks on Kosovo's ethnic Albanians even after a U.N. resolution demanded a cease-fire. The U.N. chief also said rebel forces of the Kosovo Liberation Army also were responsible for human rights violations, a charge the KLA quickly denied. '' Yugoslavia is comprised of dominant Serbia and smaller Montenegro. '' In an attempt to head off NATO action, Bulatovic said the government had accepted a Russian proposal for an investigation by the 54-nation Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Yugoslavia had repeatedly rejected such a mission to Kosovo until Yugoslav membership in the organization is restored.

 textrank summary:
 But there was no sign that Slobodan Milosevic was backing down. The statement, broadcast by government television, said there had been no fighting in the Serbian province for the past seven days and that the crisis represented no threat to other countries in the southern Balkans. As Holbrooke tried to resolve the crisis through negotiations, British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said a decision on NATO military action was imminent. ``We are getting ready for NATO action and later this week we will expect a decision to be taken,'' Cook told reporters after a special session of the Cabinet called by Prime Minister Tony Blair. At the United Nations, Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Yugoslav forces had increased their attacks on Kosovo's ethnic Albanians even after a U.N. resolution demanded a cease-fire. NATO countries had been awaiting the U.N. chief's report to determine whether to use military force to stop the offensive on ethnic Albanians, who are seeking autonomy like they had until 1989, if not independence, from Yugoslavia. Meanwhile, Yugoslavia's prime minister told an emergency session of parliament Monday that the country ``is faced with the imminent danger of war. Yugoslavia had repeatedly rejected such a mission to Kosovo until Yugoslav membership in the organization is restored. The prime minister also said there was no longer any fighting in Kosovo, which has 2 million residents. Some army units remain in the field, and there is enormous fear that violence will resume, particularly among refugees, tens of thousands of whom are living in the hills and forests without shelter. 
