summary: 
 Following his meeting with Holbrooke, Milosevic's office issued a statement denouncing NATO threats as a ``criminal act'' that favored separatist ethnic Albanian guerrillas. Holbrooke issued no statement after the meeting. Before boarding a plane for the Yugoslav capital, Belgrade, however, Holbrooke said conditions in the southern Serbian province had not improved since the alliance started two weeks ago to finalize plans for air raids to force Milosevic to halt his offensive against Kosovo Albanian separatists. '' Holbrooke negotiated the peace deal with Milosevic and other Balkan leaders that ended the 3 1/2 year Bosnian war in 1995. Clinton, in a telephone call with Russian President Boris Yeltsin, said Milosevic's compliance with U.N. demands ``must be verifiable, tangible and irreversible,'' press secretary Joe Lockhart said at the White House. In Brussels, NATO officials said they were ready to launch airstrikes within hours of receiving an order to attack. The EU foreign ministers, meeting in Luxembourg, agreed to tighten economic sanctions against Milosevic, but it was unlikely that stricter travel curbs for Yugoslav officials and freezing more Yugoslav assets abroad would be anything more than symbolic. Yugoslavia had repeatedly rejected such a mission to Kosovo until Yugoslav membership in the organization is restored. He said five of the 10 special police units had been removed from Kosovo and the others had been returned to their barracks in the province. One diplomat in Kosovo, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said there has been a significant redeployment of Yugoslav army troops out of Kosovo to other parts of Serbia, including a mechanized brigade that pulled out Sunday.

 anti-summary: 
 But Slobodan Milosevic showed no signs of backing down. Holbrooke said he planned to drive home to Milosevic ``the extreme gravity of the situation. In Washington, U.S. President Bill Clinton expressed concern that Milosevic was ``playing the classic game of making false promises'' to avoid NATO military strikes. As Holbrooke tried to resolve the crisis through negotiations, British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said a decision on NATO military action was imminent. ``We are getting ready for NATO action and later this week we will expect a decision to be taken,'' Cook told reporters after a special session of the Cabinet called by Prime Minister Tony Blair. At the United Nations, Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Yugoslav forces had increased their attacks on Kosovo's ethnic Albanians even after a U.N. resolution demanded a cease-fire. The U.N. chief also said rebel forces of the Kosovo Liberation Army also were responsible for human rights violations, a charge the KLA quickly denied. But the parliament voted to introduce the measure ``when the first bomb drops on our territory. '' In an attempt to head off NATO action, Bulatovic said the government had accepted a Russian proposal for an investigation by the 54-nation Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The prime minister also said there was no longer any fighting in Kosovo, which has 2 million residents.

 textrank summary:
  With NATO attacks said to be only days away, top U.S. envoy Richard Holbrooke delivered a last-minute warning Monday to Yugoslavia's president to halt his crackdown on ethnic Albanians in Kosovo or face airstrikes. Before boarding a plane for the Yugoslav capital, Belgrade, however, Holbrooke said conditions in the southern Serbian province had not improved since the alliance started two weeks ago to finalize plans for air raids to force Milosevic to halt his offensive against Kosovo Albanian separatists. As Holbrooke tried to resolve the crisis through negotiations, British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said a decision on NATO military action was imminent. ``We are getting ready for NATO action and later this week we will expect a decision to be taken,'' Cook told reporters after a special session of the Cabinet called by Prime Minister Tony Blair. At the United Nations, Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Yugoslav forces had increased their attacks on Kosovo's ethnic Albanians even after a U.N. resolution demanded a cease-fire. NATO countries had been awaiting the U.N. chief's report to determine whether to use military force to stop the offensive on ethnic Albanians, who are seeking autonomy like they had until 1989, if not independence, from Yugoslavia. Meanwhile, Yugoslavia's prime minister told an emergency session of parliament Monday that the country ``is faced with the imminent danger of war. Yugoslavia had repeatedly rejected such a mission to Kosovo until Yugoslav membership in the organization is restored. The prime minister also said there was no longer any fighting in Kosovo, which has 2 million residents. Some army units remain in the field, and there is enormous fear that violence will resume, particularly among refugees, tens of thousands of whom are living in the hills and forests without shelter. 
