summary: 
  Under NATO threat to end his punishing offensive against ethnic Albanian separatists in Kosovo, President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia has ordered most units of his army back to their barracks and may well avoid an attack by the alliance, military observers and diplomats say. Milosevic, who on one hand is excoriated by Washington as the scourge of Kosovo yet on the other hand is treated as key to peace in Bosnia, acted as the European Union, NATO and the United Nations prepared for a review on Monday of possible military intervention. By putting the army back in its barracks, sending some police units out of Kosovo and ordering an end to burning and looting of villages, Milosevic may well avoid a NATO attack, diplomats here and in Washington said. U.S. officials said they expected Richard Holbrooke, the U.S. envoy who dealt with Milosevic in negotiating an end to the war in Bosnia, to meet with him on Monday to discuss a political plan for Kosovo. The West, fearing the precedent that independence for Kosovo would set in other conflicts in the world, has been trying to mediate a middle course. In essence, diplomats said they believed that the plan Holbrooke will present to Milosevic calls for a three-year interim period leading to a status fairly close to the pre-1989 autonomy arrangement. After meeting with Rugova, Milosevic stepped up his military operations in Kosovo, forcing Washington to reverse itself again and carry out the investment ban. In late June, Holbrooke met with two self-styled Kosovo guerrilla commanders in the province's western town of Junik but then broke off all contact. By August, when the Yugoslav army, backed by the Serbian special police, were in full swing against the rebels and burning and looting villages in the process, the monitors found it difficult to gain access to the fighting. A British reporter who walked across fields into the village on Sunday said about 10 mortar shells, apparently from the Serbian police or the Yugoslav army, were fired at the village early Sunday afternoon.

 anti-summary: 
 This weekend, foreign diplomatic observers in Kosovo reported that a ``military stand-down'' had taken place in the province, where Milosevic's forces have waged a fierce offensive against Albanian rebels. The observers said that except for segments of three brigades, most units of the Yugoslav army were ``home. But at the same time, they acknowledge that while NATO looked the other way, he enjoyed a three-month license to overwhelm the Kosovo Liberation Army _ the rebel army fighting for independence for Kosovo and its ethnic Albanian majority _ and terrorize the rural civilian population that supports it. His military operation created more than 250,000 refugees, whom the Clinton administration is gearing up to take care of this winter through a variety of relief organizations. All along, the biggest fear in Washington has been that the Kosovo conflict would engulf neighboring countries and encourage Albania and the ethnic Albanian population in Macedonia to join the cause. Such a possibility raised the specter of a new Balkans conflict just three years after peace was secured in Bosnia. But there are some areas in central Kosovo around Likovac and Gornje Obrinje that the monitors have ruled off limits because of land mines on the roads. Gornje Obrinje was the site of a massacre of 18 ethnic Albanian women, children and elderly people on Sept. 26. The Yugoslav army and police forces have been responsible for the vast majority of atrocities in the Kosovo conflict, said a report by New York-based group Human Rights Watch, released here on Sunday. At least 83 people, including 24 women and children, were killed in the attack, which involved helicopters, artillery and armored personnel carriers.

 textrank summary:
  Under NATO threat to end his punishing offensive against ethnic Albanian separatists in Kosovo, President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia has ordered most units of his army back to their barracks and may well avoid an attack by the alliance, military observers and diplomats say. The observers said that except for segments of three brigades, most units of the Yugoslav army were ``home. '' The daily reports of the observer mission, made up of U.S., European Union and Russian military experts, are one of the key elements in helping Washington and European capitals decide whether Milosevic has met their demands for a cease-fire. By putting the army back in its barracks, sending some police units out of Kosovo and ordering an end to burning and looting of villages, Milosevic may well avoid a NATO attack, diplomats here and in Washington said. Since the Kosovo conflict flared up in March, critics of Washington's policy toward Milosevic argue that he has been able to choreograph every move to suit his goal: pushing the Albanian population into submission with impunity. Milosevic catered to Washington's concern that the conflict be contained. The Yugoslav army mined Kosovo's borders with Macedonia and Albania, ensuring that few refugees could escape and limiting routes for arms supplies for the rebels. The monitors were slow in getting organized. The Yugoslav army and police forces have been responsible for the vast majority of atrocities in the Kosovo conflict, said a report by New York-based group Human Rights Watch, released here on Sunday. The report focused on what it called a watershed in the conflict _ the attack by police forces on three ethnic Albanian villages in late February and early March in the Drenica region of central Kosovo.
