summary: 
 They all came at night and used a white 1989 Suzuki Samuri, which is in police custody. A relative of Hemed told The Associated Press the house in the Bungoni neighborhood of Ilala district had been rented by Ahmad Khalfan. The house is south of the center of Dar es Salaam and about 6.5 kilometers (4 miles) southwest of the embassy building. Officials believe a 1987 Nissan Atlas refrigerator truck actually carried the bomb into the embassy compound. There has been speculation that two men in the Suzuiki used a remote control device to detonate the bomb. According to the same Pakistani police sources, Odeh identified Fahad as being involved in the Nairobi embassy bombing. 

 anti-summary: 
 Police are looking for two other suspects identified Ahmad Khalfan, a Tanzanian of Omani origin and Fahad, a Kenyan of Yemeni origin. The relative, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said in addition to Khalfan, the three other visitors to the house were Fahad, Ahmed and Hussein. He did not furnish second names for them, and it was not clear whether Ahmed was the same Egyptian charged in the Dar es Salaam bombing. But all were able to identify the Suzuki vehicle. A nearly simultaneous attack in neighboring Kenya killed 213 people, including 12 Americans, at the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi. Three are in custody in New York, and a fourth is a fugitive.

 textrank summary:
 Wearing gloves and masks, detectives from the Tanzanian Criminal Investigation Division could be seen searching the yard of the house that is surrounded by a high fence. The relative, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said in addition to Khalfan, the three other visitors to the house were Fahad, Ahmed and Hussein. Residents said police showed them photographs, but they were not able to identify them because it was always dark when they arrived and left. But all were able to identify the Suzuki vehicle. Three are in custody in New York, and a fourth is a fugitive. According to the same Pakistani police sources, Odeh identified Fahad as being involved in the Nairobi embassy bombing. 
