summary: 
 Suddenly, there is lots of talk about how the country can't withstand a round of politically divisive trials, and many political analysts here are betting that an agreement ``of mutual benefit'' is in the offing. Already, three major political parties are calling for some kind of new amnesty, and the ANC isn't closing the door. In choosing a truth commission rather than a Nuremberg-style trial with which to close out its brutal past, South Africa hoped for an idealistic reconciliation. So it may wind up settling for a more pragmatic reconciliation _ one that gives amnesty to the unrepentant simply because it's more practical for all concerned to move on. Certainly the commission forced the nation to see the gruesome details of its past, as sobbing survivors and stone-faced torturers told of smashed genitals and near suffocations. ``You simply can't have this country torn apart by prosecutions,'' he says. Botha, his former army chief, Georg Meiring, and the former intelligence chief, Niel Barnard, responsible. These men, and others of lower rank, have not applied for amnesty For the ANC, the most embarrassing prospect is the possible prosecution of Mandela's former wife, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who is accused in the report of taking part in a number of assaults and abductions. The ANC's problems are further complicated by its efforts to make peace with the largely Zulu-based Inkatha Freedom Party. Part of the reluctance to go forward with prosecutions may be the result of still another factor: The judicial system is already overwhelmed with rising crime and the evidence from the apartheid era is old.

 anti-summary: 
 It seems that nearly all of South Africa's political parties _ including the ruling African National Congress _ have key officials who could end up in the dock because of the report. So it may wind up settling for a more pragmatic reconciliation _ one that gives amnesty to the unrepentant simply because it's more practical for all concerned to move on. Certainly the commission forced the nation to see the gruesome details of its past, as sobbing survivors and stone-faced torturers told of smashed genitals and near suffocations. No one can answer. They already are. More than a dozen human rights and victims advocacy groups have already banded together to condemn such proposals as ``unconscionable. During the talks, the white National Party government pushed for a blanket amnesty, and the ANC refused. Virtually no one from that party came forward to ask for amnesty. Part of the reluctance to go forward with prosecutions may be the result of still another factor: The judicial system is already overwhelmed with rising crime and the evidence from the apartheid era is old. At the moment, only one political party is opposed to any form of new amnesty _ the tiny but influential Democratic Party, a liberal group that was not involved in the violence.

 textrank summary:
 If you don't come forward, you will be prosecuted. The study was barely in the hands of President Nelson Mandela before talk of new amnesty deals had begun. Society would then be able to move on, its wounds cleansed and healed. They already are. '' Even as Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the commission's chairman, delivered the report, he seemed to be anticipating a push for a new amnesty and arguing against it. To be sure, there will be opposition to any proposals to limit prosecutions. In the end, only about 250 former police officers came forward, most of them foot soldiers. Botha, his former army chief, Georg Meiring, and the former intelligence chief, Niel Barnard, responsible. These men, and others of lower rank, have not applied for amnesty For the ANC, the most embarrassing prospect is the possible prosecution of Mandela's former wife, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who is accused in the report of taking part in a number of assaults and abductions. At the moment, only one political party is opposed to any form of new amnesty _ the tiny but influential Democratic Party, a liberal group that was not involved in the violence.
