summary: 
  Gale-force winds and high seas battered yachts in Australia's Sydney-to-Hobart race Monday, killing at least two crew members and leaving three yachts missing. The center was unable to identify the sailors, say how they died or give details on the injuries sustained by surviving crewmen. As of mid-morning Monday, he had been in the water for 15 hours. The Navy sent a Sea King helicopter with night-vision and heat-seeking equipment to search the area and the frigate HMAS Newcastle was on its way to the area. A total of 37 yachts have been forced out of the 1,160-kilometer (725-mile) race.

 anti-summary: 
  Gale-force winds and high seas battered yachts in Australia's Sydney-to-Hobart race Monday, killing at least two crew members and leaving three yachts missing. The center was unable to identify the sailors, say how they died or give details on the injuries sustained by surviving crewmen. The missing boats are veteran cutter Winston Churchill, which sailed in the inaugural 1945 race and Solo Globe Challenger. Despite the conditions, Race spokesman Peter Campbell said it was unlikely the race would be called off. ``It does say in the instructions that it is the sole responsibility of the skipper of each yacht to decide whether he continues in the race or retires,'' he said.

 textrank summary:
  Gale-force winds and high seas battered yachts in Australia's Sydney-to-Hobart race Monday, killing at least two crew members and leaving three yachts missing. The center was unable to identify the sailors, say how they died or give details on the injuries sustained by surviving crewmen. The Navy sent a Sea King helicopter with night-vision and heat-seeking equipment to search the area and the frigate HMAS Newcastle was on its way to the area. Despite the conditions, Race spokesman Peter Campbell said it was unlikely the race would be called off. ``It does say in the instructions that it is the sole responsibility of the skipper of each yacht to decide whether he continues in the race or retires,'' he said.
