summary: 
  Robert F. Furchgott, Louis J. Ignarro and Ferid Murad of the United States on Monday won the Nobel Medicine Prize. Furchgott is a pharmacologist at the State University of New York in Brooklyn, Ignarro is at University of California-Los Angeles and Murad is at the University of Texas Medical School in Houston. Winners generally aren't known outside the medical community, although the list of laureates contains a few familiar names including Ivan Pavlov, tuberculosis pioneer Robert Koch, and DNA researchers Francis Crick and James Watson. Generally, they are researchers who have made discoveries that sound small on paper but carry large consequences. Alan Cormack of the United States and Sir Godfrey Hounsfield may not be familiar names, but what they won the prize for in 1979 is a term known by most patients: computer-assisted tomography _ or CAT scan.

 anti-summary: 
  Robert F. Furchgott, Louis J. Ignarro and Ferid Murad of the United States on Monday won the Nobel Medicine Prize. They were given the prize for their discoveries concerning nitric oxide as a signaling molecule in the cardiovascular system, according to the citiation from the Karolinska lnstitute. Furchgott is a pharmacologist at the State University of New York in Brooklyn, Ignarro is at University of California-Los Angeles and Murad is at the University of Texas Medical School in Houston. The citation said ``it was a senation that the simple, common air pollutant (nitric oxide), which is formed when nitrogen burns ... could exert important functions in the organism. Last year, the prize went to Stanley B. Prusiner of the University of California at San Francisco for his discovery of prions, the rogue proteins identified as causing Mad Cow Disease.

 textrank summary:
 Last year, the prize went to Stanley B. Prusiner of the University of California at San Francisco for his discovery of prions, the rogue proteins identified as causing Mad Cow Disease. Among other well-known names to receive the prize is David Baltimore, although he shared the prize in 1975, long before becoming one of the world's most visible AIDS researchers. The medicine prize was the second of the six Nobels to be announced this year. The physics and chemistry prizes will be announced Tuesday, the economics prize on Wednesday and the peace prize on Friday. All the announcements are in Stockholm, except for the peace prize which is given in Oslo, Norway.
