summary: 
  Portuguese novelist Jose Saramago, whose capricious vision includes a section of Europe breaking off and floating out to sea, on Thursday was named the winner of the 1998 Nobel Literature Prize. '' Saramago, 75, wrote his breakthrough novel in 1982, ``Baltasar and Blimunda. '' Perhaps his best-known work is ``The Stone Raft,'' in which the Iberian Peninsula breaks off from Europe for supernatural reasons and floats off into the Atlantic. ``Saramago's idiosyncratic development of his own resonant style of fiction gives him a high standing ... he invokes tradition in a way that in the current state of things can be described as radical,'' the Academy said in the citation for the 7.6-million kronor (dlrs 978,000 prize). He had long been seen as one of the strongest potential candidates for the prize and the frequent media queries about his prospects contrasted with his quiet personality. '' Saramago on Thursday had planned to leave Frankfurt, Germany, _ where he was attending the international book fair _ for his home in the Canary Islands. But Portuguese state radio said he was taken off the plane before departure and driven back to the fair, where a crowd wa waiting for him. According to the terms of Nobel's will, the literature prize is to recognize writing that works ``in an ideal direction. Nominations can be made by previous laureates, professors of history and literature, members of the Academy and presidents of some national authors' organizations.

 anti-summary: 
  Portuguese novelist Jose Saramago, whose capricious vision includes a section of Europe breaking off and floating out to sea, on Thursday was named the winner of the 1998 Nobel Literature Prize. In its citation, the Swedish Academy said it gave the award to Saramago for work that ``with parables sustained by imagination, compassion and irony continually enables us to apprehend an elusory reality. That device allows him to comment ironically ``about the authorities and politicians, perhaps especially about the major players in power politics. ``Saramago's idiosyncratic development of his own resonant style of fiction gives him a high standing ... he invokes tradition in a way that in the current state of things can be described as radical,'' the Academy said in the citation for the 7.6-million kronor (dlrs 978,000 prize). Saramago (pronounced sah-rah-MAH-go) is the fourth consecutive European to win the prestigious prize, and the first laureate to write in Portuguese. The prize even has gone occasionally to writers who did not work in fiction or poetry, notably Winston Churchill and Bertrand Russell. The 1996 winner was the Polish poet Wislawa Szymborska, as shy and delicate and Fo is boisterous. Nominations can be made by previous laureates, professors of history and literature, members of the Academy and presidents of some national authors' organizations. The Nobel Prize in Medicine winner will be announced Oct. 12, the physics and chemistry winners on Oct. 13, the economics laureate on Oct. 14 and the peace prize on Occt.

 textrank summary:
 In its citation, the Swedish Academy said it gave the award to Saramago for work that ``with parables sustained by imagination, compassion and irony continually enables us to apprehend an elusory reality. '' Perhaps his best-known work is ``The Stone Raft,'' in which the Iberian Peninsula breaks off from Europe for supernatural reasons and floats off into the Atlantic. He had long been seen as one of the strongest potential candidates for the prize and the frequent media queries about his prospects contrasted with his quiet personality. The literature prize is one of five established by Alfred Nobel, the Swedish industrialist and inventor of dynamite. According to the terms of Nobel's will, the literature prize is to recognize writing that works ``in an ideal direction. The prize even has gone occasionally to writers who did not work in fiction or poetry, notably Winston Churchill and Bertrand Russell. Last year's prize went to Dario Fo, the Italian playwright whose work combines gut-busting comedy with acid social and political commentary. The Nobel Prize in Medicine winner will be announced Oct. 12, the physics and chemistry winners on Oct. 13, the economics laureate on Oct. 14 and the peace prize on Occt. All the prize announcements are in Stockholm, except for the peace prize which is given in Oslo, Norway.
