summary: 
 The citation by the Karolinska Institute said ``it was a senation that the simple, common air pollutant (nitric oxide), which is formed when nitrogen burns ... could exert important functions in the organism. '' Because of the research, ``we know today that nitric oxide acts as a signal molecule in the nervous system, as a weapon against infections and as a regulator of blood pressure. The prize amount of 7.6 million kronor (dlrs 978,000) is divided equally among the three. Winners generally aren't known outside the medical community, although the list of laureates contains a few familiar names including Ivan Pavlov, tuberculosis pioneer Robert Koch, and DNA researchers Francis Crick and James Watson. Generally, they are researchers who have made discoveries that sound small on paper but carry large consequences. Last Thursday, the literature prize went to Portuguese novelist Jose Saramago.

 anti-summary: 
 Furchgott is a pharmacologist at the State University of New York in Brooklyn, Ignarro is at University of California-Los Angeles and Murad is at the University of Texas Medical School in Houston. '' ``Signal transmission by a gas that is produced by one cell, penetrates through membranes and regulates the function of another cell represents an entirely new principle,'' the citation said. Last year, the prize went to Stanley B. Prusiner of the University of California at San Francisco for his discovery of prions, the rogue proteins identified as causing Mad Cow Disease. Generally, they are researchers who have made discoveries that sound small on paper but carry large consequences. Among other well-known names to receive the prize is David Baltimore, although he shared the prize in 1975, long before becoming one of the world's most visible AIDS researchers. The prizes are presented on Dec. 10, the anniversary of the death of Alfred Nobel, the industrialist and inventor of dynamite whose will established the prizes. 

 textrank summary:
 The prestigious prize went to Robert F. Furchgott, Louis J. Ignarro and Ferid Murad. Last year, the prize went to Stanley B. Prusiner of the University of California at San Francisco for his discovery of prions, the rogue proteins identified as causing Mad Cow Disease. Among other well-known names to receive the prize is David Baltimore, although he shared the prize in 1975, long before becoming one of the world's most visible AIDS researchers. The medicine prize was the second of the six Nobels to be announced this year. The physics and chemistry prizes will be announced Tuesday, the economics prize on Wednesday and the peace prize on Friday. All the announcements are in Stockholm, except for the peace prize which is given in Oslo, Norway.
