summary: 
 If the $4 billion deal is completed _ the companies had not reached a final agreement as of Monday night _ AOL would acquire a leading Internet brand and enlarge its wired audience by absorbing the millions who regularly visit Netscape's popular NetCenter site on the World Wide Web. ``America Online is assembling the kind of audience numbers that will convince people the Internet is becoming a mainstream media. '' In the new media business, as in traditional media like television or newspapers, eyeballs translate into advertising revenue. AOL is at the forefront of this convergence of media and commerce converge, and integration reflected in the lineage of its leaders. It has an online service, MSN, which competes with AOL, as well as information-and commerce Web sites that focus on travel, cars and real estate. It also owns Sidewalk, a network of local sites that list movies, restaurants and stores in cities around the country including Seattle and New York. Netscape is known as the pioneer in the commercial development of software used to navigate the World Wide Web. Still, AOL and Sun have a longer-term objective as well _ one that promises to place them in more direct conflict with Microsoft. For nearly a year, William J. Raduchel, Sun's chief strategist, has been working closely with AOL, according to Sun executives. The appliance would be mainly a receiver and screen, with most of the computing power residing on vast central computers serving up information as users request by tapping a few buttons.

 anti-summary: 
 If the $4 billion deal is completed _ the companies had not reached a final agreement as of Monday night _ AOL would acquire a leading Internet brand and enlarge its wired audience by absorbing the millions who regularly visit Netscape's popular NetCenter site on the World Wide Web. AOL is at the forefront of this convergence of media and commerce converge, and integration reflected in the lineage of its leaders. Besides deep pockets, Microsoft has the built-in advantage in any computer-based medium because its Windows operating system runs more than 90 percent of personal computers sold today. '' Still, if the Netscape deal is completed, AOL will also find itself in the software business in a way it has never been in the past. Microsoft saw the browser software as a direct threat to its industry dominance and pursued that market aggressively, bundling its own browser with its Windows and giving it away free _ tactics that have been challenged by the government. But Netscape no longer generates revenues from its browser, which it now also distributes for free, but from the sale of heavy-duty software sold to corporations. A surprising element in the proposed deal is that AOL intends to hold onto Netscape's corporate software business instead of selling it off to an established software company. Executives close to AOL explain the decision as the need to provide full-line offerings for electronic commerce, from corporate Web site to the computer screens of consumers. But AOL has decided it needs help to preserve and strengthen Netscape's corporate software business. As part of the deal, AOL will agree to purchase about $300 million worth of Sun's computers for its service, while Sun will apparently agree to purchase sizeable amounts of Netscape software, which Sun's sales force must sell.

 textrank summary:
  America Online Inc. wants to become the ``next Microsoft'' in two promising information-age fields where Microsoft Corp. is just another company _ the Internet media business and electronic commerce. ``America Online is assembling the kind of audience numbers that will convince people the Internet is becoming a mainstream media. By 2003, Forrester Research Inc., whose business is analyzing trends in cyberspace, projects that Internet commerce could reach $3.2 trillion, or 5 percent of all sales worldwide. Steve Case, the chairman, was once a new-product manager for Pepsico's Pizza Hut chain, while Robert Pittman, the president, is a former MTV executive. It has an online service, MSN, which competes with AOL, as well as information-and commerce Web sites that focus on travel, cars and real estate. Its MSNBC Internet news service is half of a joint venture with NBC. '' Still, if the Netscape deal is completed, AOL will also find itself in the software business in a way it has never been in the past. Microsoft saw the browser software as a direct threat to its industry dominance and pursued that market aggressively, bundling its own browser with its Windows and giving it away free _ tactics that have been challenged by the government. But Netscape no longer generates revenues from its browser, which it now also distributes for free, but from the sale of heavy-duty software sold to corporations. Much of this software is used as the technological ``back office'' for electronic commerce _ used in building Web sites and processing transactions.
