summary: 
  America Online built itself into the most potent force in cyberspace largely by appealing to families with chatty teen-agers who want to flirt online and adults looking for an easy way to send electronic mail while checking the weather and sports scores. Now, the company has to get serious if it is to win the hearts and minds of corporate executives in pin-stripe suits. Nearly lost in the complexity of America Online's deal to buy Netscape Communication Corp. is America Online's announcement that it will enter an entirely new market: working behind the computer screen to help companies open and operate online stores. Netscape already has created software that made it a player in providing support for what is already known as electronic commerce. But America Online now says it has ambitions to offer a much wider array of software, consulting and services for online merchants. ``Most companies that sell to consumers realize that they need to get into the e-commerce space,'' said America Online president Robert Pittman in a news conference Tuesday. ``We see a major business in offering them an end-to-end solution. '' The market is big and growing bigger by the day. ``This is the first time anyone has put a true end-to-end solution that starts with the silicon and ends with the audience,'' said Barry Schuler, America Online's president for interactive services. It has been rewriting the software that lets companies open online stores to be based on universally accepted Internet standards rather than the specific computer language used only on America Online.

 anti-summary: 
 Now, the company has to get serious if it is to win the hearts and minds of corporate executives in pin-stripe suits. '' The market is big and growing bigger by the day. By 2002, Forrester estimates, the combined market for electronic commerce services and software should top $35 billion. Chief among them is whether it can appear to have the consistency, focus and follow-through that corporate customers demand. Its decision to keep Netscape as a separate unit and offer electronic commerce services in partnership with Sun will not enhance its credibility, Chatham said. '' Nor have Internet service providers and other telecommunications-oriented companies shown much evidence, Ms. Gere of International Data said, that they are capable of offering the highly specific customized services that big corporate clients demand. ``Telecommunications companies that try to do things efficiently for a large number of customers have not been able to offer customized one-to-one relationships,'' she said. '' Even before the Netscape deal, America Online was moving to provide some electronic commerce software and services. America Online is working to offer it _ for a fee _ to stores on the broader Internet. There is a wide range of services that are incorporated in electronic commerce.

 textrank summary:
 Now, the company has to get serious if it is to win the hearts and minds of corporate executives in pin-stripe suits. But America Online now says it has ambitions to offer a much wider array of software, consulting and services for online merchants. Forrester Research estimates that $325 million will be spent this year on electronic commerce software and another $5.3 billion on services that range from graphic design to the turn-key operation of entire online stores. By 2002, Forrester estimates, the combined market for electronic commerce services and software should top $35 billion. ``AOL is not the first company that comes to my mind when it comes to business-quality software,'' said Robert Chatham, a senior analyst with Forrester Research. ``They have an online store, but their square footage is too small. '' Even before the Netscape deal, America Online was moving to provide some electronic commerce software and services. This new software, which now will be combined with Netscape's online store services, will be available for companies to use both on America Online and on the Internet. There is a wide range of services that are incorporated in electronic commerce. There are all sorts of computer systems to be developed, ranging from the online stores themselves to connecting those sites to a company's existing inventory and accounting systems. 
