summary: 
 By moving quickly toward what both companies have recently come to see as the inevitable convergence of technology and media, America Online hopes that it will secure a solid lead in a battle already joined by giants like the Microsoft Corp. and the International Business Machines Corp. to transform the greater part of cyberspace into a vast virtual mall. Part of that vision rests on an alliance with Sun Microsystems that America Online negotiated as part of the deal. But for America Online _ and for the big Internet players against which it will compete _ the real potential gold mine lies further down the road, perhaps five years away, when people will venture on line for information or shopping not only from personal computers but from inexpensive Internet appliances costing $200 each, or maybe included free as part of a subscription service, just as some cellular phones are now. Today, being wired remains a comparatively elitist activity _ an estimated 25 percent of American households had access to the Internet last year, and 5 percent of households bought merchandise on line. ``A new generation of Internet devices to be able to deliver our service anywhere is a key part of what this deal is about in the long run,'' said Stephen M. Case, 40, the chairman of America Online. And the ability of the companies' executives to sell that vision to Netscape's whiz-kid programmers in particular will determine whether the merger succeeds. As is the case with any software company, Netscape's key asset is its talented programmers, and many of these code hackers may be reluctant to work for America Online, which still has a reputation as a middle-brow service catering to online newcomers, known derisively as ``newbies. ``But these people want to change the world, and we've got to be clear that joining with America Online, along with the Sun component, really is a bigger opportunity for us,'' said Marc Andreessen, the 26-year-old cofounder of Netscape who led a team of young programmers from the supercomputing center at the University of Illinois to Silicon Valley to start the Internet software company in 1994. ``This ought to be the preeminent Internet company over the next decade,'' Andreessen declared, speaking from a cell phone on a streetcorner in Palo Alto, Calif. For his part, Andreessen, a Netscape executive vice president, will become Netscape's chief technology officer for the next three or four months, until the merger is completed. The Netscape transformation was largely a reaction to Microsoft's competitive assault on its browser business _ a central element in the government's antitrust suit against Microsoft.

 anti-summary: 
 By moving quickly toward what both companies have recently come to see as the inevitable convergence of technology and media, America Online hopes that it will secure a solid lead in a battle already joined by giants like the Microsoft Corp. and the International Business Machines Corp. to transform the greater part of cyberspace into a vast virtual mall. Sun not only brings a cyber-savvy sales force to the effort but, even more importantly, a strong technology partner in developing Netscape's industrial-strength software for running Internet sites. Sun is indeed a technology heavyweight. For the present, however, the idea is to make America Online, the nation's leading online service, the standard way to get onto the Internet, the executives explained. Netscape, the Internet pioneer, is a crucial part of that effort, they said. As is the case with any software company, Netscape's key asset is its talented programmers, and many of these code hackers may be reluctant to work for America Online, which still has a reputation as a middle-brow service catering to online newcomers, known derisively as ``newbies. His new job at America Online has not yet been determined, but it is likely to be chief technology officer of the combined company as well, an America Online executive said. Early this year, after laying off workers and suffering a large loss last year, Netscape announced that it would also distribute its browser for free. It now has an Internet chat service and runs its own all-in-one site on the Web, known as a ``portal,'' which includes e-mail, Internet searching, news, entertainment and online shopping. ``America Online has really changed from a closed online service for novice users to an Internet media and technology company with a diverse set of brands,'' Andreessen said.

 textrank summary:
 Part of that vision rests on an alliance with Sun Microsystems that America Online negotiated as part of the deal. Sun not only brings a cyber-savvy sales force to the effort but, even more importantly, a strong technology partner in developing Netscape's industrial-strength software for running Internet sites. ``A new generation of Internet devices to be able to deliver our service anywhere is a key part of what this deal is about in the long run,'' said Stephen M. Case, 40, the chairman of America Online. Netscape, the Internet pioneer, is a crucial part of that effort, they said. As is the case with any software company, Netscape's key asset is its talented programmers, and many of these code hackers may be reluctant to work for America Online, which still has a reputation as a middle-brow service catering to online newcomers, known derisively as ``newbies. His new job at America Online has not yet been determined, but it is likely to be chief technology officer of the combined company as well, an America Online executive said. It seems to have stabilized its business around its new model. Yet America Online has also changed in the last couple of years, moving well beyond its reputation as an online service for beginners. It now has an Internet chat service and runs its own all-in-one site on the Web, known as a ``portal,'' which includes e-mail, Internet searching, news, entertainment and online shopping. ``America Online has really changed from a closed online service for novice users to an Internet media and technology company with a diverse set of brands,'' Andreessen said.
