summary: 
  America Online is on the verge of agreeing to purchase Netscape Communications Corp., the Internet pioneer at the center of the government's antitrust suit against Microsoft Corp., executives involved in the talks said Sunday. The proposed deal is a complex, three-way transaction involving AOL, Netscape and Sun Microsystems Inc. AOL, the leading on-line service with more than 14 million subscribers, would acquire Netscape's popular site on the World Wide Web and its software business. It does appear to support a key theme of Microsoft's defense _ namely, that it operates in a fast-moving industry where corporate alliances shift all the time. ``No matter how much the alliances shift, it doesn't affect the central fact of Microsoft's monopoly and how it has used and abused its market power to protect its monopoly,'' said David Boies, the Justice Department's lead trial lawyer in the Microsoft case. To win the browser deal, Microsoft offered AOL prime real estate on the Windows desktop, the main screen on more than 90 percent of personal computers sold today. Staying with Microsoft's browser can be seen as proof that AOL still regards placement on the Windows desktop as crucial, as well as a careful step to avoid undermining one of the allegations in the government's case. For AOL, the Netscape purchase would accelerate its evolution toward the Internet. At present, its flagship on-line service is a hybrid _ to its own proprietary service, it has added a gateway to the World Wide Web. In addition, for consumers who do not subscribe to AOL's dial-up service, it also has its own Web site, aol.com, which attracts about 24 million visitors a month, according to Media Metrix/Relevant Knowledge, a market research firm. And while Netscape's browser no longer generates revenue on its own, it is a distribution channel for Java technology.

 anti-summary: 
 The proposed deal is a complex, three-way transaction involving AOL, Netscape and Sun Microsystems Inc. AOL, the leading on-line service with more than 14 million subscribers, would acquire Netscape's popular site on the World Wide Web and its software business. A completed deal could be announced as soon as Monday morning. It would strengthen two of Microsoft's leading rivals, AOL and Sun Microsystems. But the deal, government officials insist, should have no direct effect on the current case. Executives representing Netscape, AOL and Sun Microsystems are government witnesses at the Microsoft trial. Still, executives involved in the talks said that the timing of the proposed deal was unrelated to the antitrust trial. Nor should it, one person noted, be regarded as ``a single-minded attempt to circle the wagons against Microsoft. AOL is expected pay little, if any, premium over Netscape's stock price on Friday, executives close to the deal said, since Netscape shares have more than doubled in the last month. The stock closed Friday at $39.1875, up $2.625. AOL's shares gained $1.50 Friday, closing at $84.875. 

 textrank summary:
 The proposed deal is a complex, three-way transaction involving AOL, Netscape and Sun Microsystems Inc. AOL, the leading on-line service with more than 14 million subscribers, would acquire Netscape's popular site on the World Wide Web and its software business. Its Navigator was the runaway leader in the market for the browser software used to navigate the World Wide Web. Eventually, Microsoft's browser technology caught up to Netscape's. Executives representing Netscape, AOL and Sun Microsystems are government witnesses at the Microsoft trial. Nor should it, one person noted, be regarded as ``a single-minded attempt to circle the wagons against Microsoft. Its big Web site offers a wide range of information, entertainment, Internet chat and e-mail, a leading example of the all-in-one sites that have become known as portals. Sun Microsystems, analysts say, could be a strong partner for AOL in the market for Internet commerce software. Sun is a corporate software company with a sales force of several thousand. And while Netscape's browser no longer generates revenue on its own, it is a distribution channel for Java technology. AOL's shares gained $1.50 Friday, closing at $84.875. 
