summary: 
 The human testimony often pales next to the e-mail evidence. The e-mail is alive with ideas and competitive zeal, punctuated with profanity and exclamation points. The Microsoft legal team has for months been preparing its e-mail defense. So last week, for example, Warden produced e-mail from Stephen Case, the chairman of America Online, suggesting a partnership with Netscape Communications Corp. in which both companies would focus on their respective strengths. While under investigation, Microsoft has handed over to the government an estimated 30 million documents, mostly e-mail. In the trial, the two sides have submitted about 3,000 exhibits, mainly e-mail. It can be a sharp contrast to formal oral testimony, so often coached by lawyers and crafted by selective memory. It can also be powerful ammunition for pointing to contradictions in testimony. It showed a few brief clips of a point in the deposition when Gates was asked about a meeting on June 21, 1995, at which, the government alleges, Microsoft offered to divide the browser market with Netscape and to make an investment in the company, which is its chief rival in that market. ``We could even pay them money as part of the deal,'' he wrote, ``buying a piece of them or something.

 anti-summary: 
  The outcome of the Microsoft antitrust case may be a long way off, but one thing is already clear: This is the first major e-mail trial. The government's prosecution and Microsoft Corp.'s defense, to a striking degree, are legal campaigns waged with electronic messages. The e-mail is alive with ideas and competitive zeal, punctuated with profanity and exclamation points. With a new witness, an executive of Apple Computer Inc., taking the stand Monday, it is uncertain when the Gates tape will be played. The Gates videotape, said David Boies, the Justice Department's trial lawyer, offers an ``opportunity to judge Gates' credibility. The Microsoft legal team has for months been preparing its e-mail defense. From the 1950s through the 1980s, legal experts say, there was an explosion of documentation fueled by the new technologies of electric typewriters, photocopying and fax machines, and then personal computers. And e-mail, they add, has played an important role in legal inquiries for years, like the Iran-contra case in the 1980s when e-mail found in Oliver North's computer proved crucial. It showed a few brief clips of a point in the deposition when Gates was asked about a meeting on June 21, 1995, at which, the government alleges, Microsoft offered to divide the browser market with Netscape and to make an investment in the company, which is its chief rival in that market. ``We could even pay them money as part of the deal,'' he wrote, ``buying a piece of them or something.

 textrank summary:
  The outcome of the Microsoft antitrust case may be a long way off, but one thing is already clear: This is the first major e-mail trial. The second week of the trial ended with the prosecutors being frustrated because a lengthy cross-examination by Microsoft's lead lawyer left no time for the government to show several hours of a videotaped deposition of Bill Gates, the Microsoft chairman. The Gates videotape, said David Boies, the Justice Department's trial lawyer, offers an ``opportunity to judge Gates' credibility. ``The government does not need to put Gates on the stand, because we have his e-mail and memoranda,'' Stephen Houck, a lawyer for the states, told the court. The Microsoft legal team has for months been preparing its e-mail defense. And e-mail, they add, has played an important role in legal inquiries for years, like the Iran-contra case in the 1980s when e-mail found in Oliver North's computer proved crucial. But the Microsoft case is the result of a sweeping government antitrust investigation of a high-technology company where e-mail has supplanted the telephone as the most common instrument of communication. While under investigation, Microsoft has handed over to the government an estimated 30 million documents, mostly e-mail. But e-mail communication is documentary evidence, which in legal cases provides a rich, contemporaneous record of what people were thinking and planning at the time. The government offered a glimpse of that strategy on the first day of the trial.
