summary: 
 The Democratic surge marked the first time since 1934 that the president's party had gained seats in a midterm election, and it whittled the Republican House majority down to a mere six votes. Committee Democrats declined comment Wednesday until they could discuss Hyde's plan among themselves. '' One of the first difficult questions now facing Congress is how to proceed with the impeachment inquiry in the face of public resistance to removing Clinton from office, and with a Republican majority now so slim that it is almost certain that the 218 votes required for impeachment cannot be assembled. ``It is simply for Newt Gingrich and Trent Lott to decide on an exit strategy. The new arithmetic of the House may even lead to Democrats' and moderate Republicans' forming ad hoc majorities on issues, taking control away from Republican leaders. ``It's going to weaken the position of the strident conservatives and the anti-northeast conservatives. Seeming uncharacteristically uncertain Wednesday, he said he had trouble accounting for the results. One senior Republican staffer said the House had become a ``tinderbox'' of intrigue. '' Republicans were discussing possible challenges to Gingrich, his second-in-command, Rep. Dick Armey, and other members of the senior leadership team. Unlike the self-proclaimed ``revolutionaries'' of the Republican class of 1994, many of the newly elected members are career politicians who rose through the ranks of local and state government.

 anti-summary: 
 ``We need an agenda first of all,'' he said. '' At the White House, Clinton called the election results a vindication of his party's policies. The American people want their business, their concerns, their children, their families, their future addressed here. That's what the messag e of the election was. '' But Sen. Robert Torricelli, D-N.J., said the election results guaranteed that impeachment will fail. '' Just two weeks ago, Gingrich had foreseen election gains ranging from 10 seats to more than 40. ``I mean I totally underestimated the degree to which people would just get sick of 24-hour-a day talk television and talk radio and then the degree to which this whole scandal became just sort of disgusting by sheer repetition,'' he said. ``And as a result I think we probably underestimated the need to really aggressively push a much stronger message about cutting taxes and saving Social Security, winning the war on drugs, reforming education and national defense. Asked whether Tuesday's election results could cost him the speakership, Gingrich said, ``I'm not particularly concerned. Hagel lambasted the Republican leadership for the election outcome.

 textrank summary:
 He said that Republicans this year had been left without any accomplishments to run on. All segments of our party want to see change. '' At the White House, Clinton called the election results a vindication of his party's policies. '' But Sen. Robert Torricelli, D-N.J., said the election results guaranteed that impeachment will fail. '' Just two weeks ago, Gingrich had foreseen election gains ranging from 10 seats to more than 40. ``Things were happening out there that none of us fully understand--neither party in my judgment,'' he said. Some were envisioning trying to run an entire new ticket headed by Rep. Bob Livingston, the Appropriations Committee chairman from Louisiana and including Rep. Steve Largent, an Oklahoma conservative. In the Senate, where leadership races take place in early December, some Republicans were talking of mounting challenges against mid-level leadership figures. Hagel lambasted the Republican leadership for the election outcome. The new House members include 17 Republicans and at least 22 Democrats.
