summary: 
 He worked furiously and successfully in the last ten days before the balloting to persuade Democratic loyalists not to stay home and sulk, appearing on behalf of no fewer than 224 candidates, according to his office. A moderate within the spectrum of his own party, he watched moderates win crucial elections, notably in the California gubernatorial race, where Lt. Gov. In a referendum in 1996, California adopted a primary system under which Republicans, Democrats and independent voters would all receive the same ballot, with candidates of all parties listed. High-profile right-wingers lost across the country, from Attorney General Dan Lungren in the California governor's race to Sen. Lauch Faircloth, denied re-election in North Carolina, to Rep. Mark Neumann of Wisconsin, who failed in a Senate race despite a huge spending advantage over Sen. Russell Feingold, to Ellen Sauerbrey in Maryland, who proved unable on her second try to prevail over an unpopular Democratic governor, Parris Glendening. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, a moderate whose promoters mention him weekly as a possible vice-presidential nominee. Tuesday was also a fresh demonstration, for anyone who needed one, of the political utility of pitching a tent big enough for almost everyone. But both of the Bush brothers, Jeb in Florida and George W. in Texas, took more than half the Hispanic vote in their highly successful gubernatorial campaigns. Both George W. Bush and McCain will draw strength, if they decide to run, from their proven ability to appeal to Hispanic voters, as well as their general electoral strength. ``A leader who is compassionate and conservative,'' he said in his victory speech, ``can erase the gender gap and open the Republican party to new faces and new voices. And the returns in House races, showing that all but six of 401 members who sought re-election had won, underlined once again how hard it is, under the present system, for a challenger to raise enough money to compete effectively.

 anti-summary: 
 He worked furiously and successfully in the last ten days before the balloting to persuade Democratic loyalists not to stay home and sulk, appearing on behalf of no fewer than 224 candidates, according to his office. Sen. John McCain of Arizona, a conservative who tends to steer away from divisive social issues, won re-election with 68 per cent of the vote. Tuesday was also a fresh demonstration, for anyone who needed one, of the political utility of pitching a tent big enough for almost everyone. Black politicians in North Carolina, Maryland and California reported that their fears of an indifferent black turnout had proved groundless. ``A leader who is compassionate and conservative,'' he said in his victory speech, ``can erase the gender gap and open the Republican party to new faces and new voices. Almost a quarter of California voters _ and there are now almost twice as many voters in California as in any other state _ named education as their most pressing concern. In Iowa, a Democrat was elected governor for the first time since 1969 on a platform that featured the dilapidated condition of the state's schools and a promise to remedy it. Gore will have what he needs, as will Bush, Forbes and former Gov. In only two states, Kansas and Nebraska, did a majority of voters say they favored even a congressional censure of Clinton, a much milder form of punishment advocated by many Clinton backers. But Rep. David Dreier of California, the incoming Rules Committee chairman, said that ``the election has played a role in ensuring that one of us has a desire to drag that out.

 textrank summary:
 Of course the next 18 months will bring many surprises and many reversals of fortune. But the election results offered important guidelines. Tuesday was a great day for Vice President Al Gore, for at least three reasons. Both conservatives and moderates in the party said the Republicans had to get back to basics. We're seen as the party that's against everything. '' But figures on the right saw things differently. The difficulties of raising money may doom many would-be presidential candidacies. Gore will have what he needs, as will Bush, Forbes and former Gov. But how many others will? In only two states, Kansas and Nebraska, did a majority of voters say they favored even a congressional censure of Clinton, a much milder form of punishment advocated by many Clinton backers.
