summary: 
 Gingrich's resignation was a stunning reversal for one of the most combative and personally confrontational politicians in America. Although it was their revolutionary zeal he harnessed to take control of Congress in 1994, they have become his most bitter critics in the last two years of his tumultuous speakership. Friday night he called them cannibals who had ``blackmailed'' him into quitting. When someone asked him why he was leaving, he said, `A handful of members have blackmailed the conference. ' And he said, `They're cannibals. After the Gingrich calls, Rep. Bill Archer of Texas announced he was considering his own run for speaker. '' Referring to his wife, he told his colleagues he was resigning from Congress because ``Marianne and I are tired. Despite our profound differences, I appreciate those times we were able to work together in the national interest, especially Speaker Gingrich's strong support for America's continuing leadership for freedom, peace and prosperity in the world. '' Many Republicans took the opportunity to portray Gingrich as a visionary. '' His supporters said Gingrich had the votes to win the election to nominate a speaker, which is to be conducted by secret ballot.

 anti-summary: 
 His reflexive pugilistic response was evident even Friday night. Livingston and Archer are chairmen of the two most powerful committees in the House. In a statement Gingrich said, ``The Republican conference needs to be unified, and it is time for me to move forward. ``If I stay,'' he told his colleagues Friday night, ``my controversial nature would overshadow any successes we might have,'' an understatement to those who recalled his suggestion two years ago that he forced a shutdown of the government because he was miffed about having to sit in the back of Air Force One on a trip with President Clinton. So long as I am around, I will always be a target in the news media, which would mean we would never be able to get our message out. '' Clinton said: ``Newt Gingrich has been a worthy adversary leading the Republican Party to a majority in the House and joining me in a great national debate over how best to prepare America for the 21st century. '' He said that because of the deep rifts in the party, Gingrich would not have been able to implement his plans. ``I hope that whoever succeeds Newt Gingrich as speaker will immediately begin the process of repairing the damage that was wrought on this institution over the last four years,'' Gephardt said. ``There will be a lot of pretenders to the throne who will test the waters,'' said Boehlert, who had supported Gingrich for re-election as speaker. ``There won't be any shortage of candidates.

 textrank summary:
 In his second conference call, according to several people who listened, Gingrich blamed House conservatives for his downfall. '' Another Republican described the conference call this way: ``He started off very statesmanlike, but then you could see the anger building. ' And he said, `They're cannibals. After the Gingrich calls, Rep. Bill Archer of Texas announced he was considering his own run for speaker. In a statement Gingrich said, ``The Republican conference needs to be unified, and it is time for me to move forward. '' Referring to his wife, he told his colleagues he was resigning from Congress because ``Marianne and I are tired. Rep. Sherwood Boehlert of New York said that during the first conference call, ``there was shock and surprise and strong expressions of appreciation for leading us to the Promised Land. But, they agreed, the party's slim, six-vote majority meant every vote would be a battle. '' He said that because of the deep rifts in the party, Gingrich would not have been able to implement his plans. ``There won't be any shortage of candidates.
