summary: 
 But many were already angry at him for what they said was his failure to articulate a clear message for the party going into the elections and for a messy budget process that gave President Clinton a political edge and contradicted Republican principles of fiscal conservativism by containing massive amounts of spending for local projects. Several Republicans said that both Livingston, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee and one of the few members with the stature to stand for speaker, and Gingrich were working the phones on Thursday in a struggle for votes. Livingston has said nothing publicly about a challenge to Gingrich, but several members and aides said on Thursday that he would announce his intentions, possibly as soon as Friday, only after he had determined if he could win. ``He won't do it till he has his ducks in a row, and right now a lot of people are still loyal to the speaker,'' said an aide to a Republican who, like many others, is trying to straddle the line between fealty to a speaker who may retain power and encouragement to a challenger who offers a salve to an embattled party. Those officials said that Largent told Livingston that he wanted to run with him on a ticket and that he would challenge Rep. Dick Armey, the majority leader. But, these officials said that if Livingston did not challenge Gingrich, Largent would run for speaker instead. Added to the mix on Thursday was the name of Rep. Christopher Cox, a California conservative. ``Leadership takes credit when things go right,'' he said. '' The energy that many vented publicly on Wednesday as anger toward Gingrich seemed devoted on Thursday to intense internal political calculations about whether Livingston could succeed in toppling Gingrich and whether he should succeed. With the challenge under way, Gingrich has been trying to show members that he is responsive to their concerns.

 anti-summary: 
  A struggle for control of the House is under way, with Rep. Robert Livingston conducting a telephone campaign that could lead to him running against Newt Gingrich as speaker. At the same time, a small band of Republicans vowed on Thursday that they would not vote to re-elect Gingrich under any circumstances, a move that, because of the Republicans' shrunken House majority, could tie the party in knots for months. Rep. Matt Salmon, R-Ariz., said: ``I personally have made the decision that I cannot vote for Newt Gingrich for speaker in January, and there are six others who have told me they feel the same way, seven people who just will not, and it takes six to deadlock the vote. '' Fury at the speaker has boiled over since Tuesday's elections, when Republicans suffered a net loss of five seats in the House. House Republicans are to meet Nov. 18 to vote by secret ballot for their leaders. Whoever wins the Republican nomination for speaker must stand for election by the full House in January. Even if Gingrich wins the secret ballot, he could be denied re-election as speaker in January if Salmon and at least five others refuse to vote for him. But, these officials said that if Livingston did not challenge Gingrich, Largent would run for speaker instead. They included Reps. David McIntosh of Indiana for speaker and Jennifer Dunn of Washington as conference chairman. '' Salmon said his refusal to support Gingrich no matter what was based on Gingrich's track record of ``one failed strategy after another,'' including the impeachment process and the pork-laden budget.

 textrank summary:
 '' Fury at the speaker has boiled over since Tuesday's elections, when Republicans suffered a net loss of five seats in the House. Whoever wins the Republican nomination for speaker must stand for election by the full House in January. Even if Gingrich wins the secret ballot, he could be denied re-election as speaker in January if Salmon and at least five others refuse to vote for him. The officials said that Livingston spoke to Gingrich shortly after the election returns but also before the election, reflecting Livingston's earlier displeasure with the speaker over the budget process. Those officials said that Largent told Livingston that he wanted to run with him on a ticket and that he would challenge Rep. Dick Armey, the majority leader. But, these officials said that if Livingston did not challenge Gingrich, Largent would run for speaker instead. They included Reps. David McIntosh of Indiana for speaker and Jennifer Dunn of Washington as conference chairman. '' Some moderates said they were prepared to support him. ``Billy has been loyal to both Speaker Gingrich and Dick Armey, and he's still loyal to them, but he also wants to hear what they have to say before committing to them in the next election,'' Johnson said. After an election night in which he portrayed the Republicans as victorious even as they lost seats, the next day he took ``responsibility'' for the losses.
