summary: 
 Members and aides said Wednesday that a fury at the speaker had bubbled up overnight and that some members were trying to organize a slate of candidates to replace Gingrich and his leadership team when House Republicans convene on Nov. 18 to select their leaders for next year. ``People were very angry last night,'' one aide said. '' Another aide said, ``Most people are really angry with Newt, and no one knows what to do with it. '' A possible slate could contain the names of Reps. Robert L. Livingston of Louisiana to replace Gingrich, Steve Largent of Oklahoma to replace Dick Armey of Texas as majority leader, and Jennifer Dunn of Washington to replace John A. Boehner of Ohio as conference chairman. '' Publicly, Gingrich has expressed confidence about keeping his job as speaker. In the past, no more than a couple of dozen members have openly expressed their dissatisfaction with him, and a coup attempt last year fizzled for lack of support. '' But Mann and others said that anger has been building at Gingrich for several reasons, including his signing on to a budget deal last month that seemed to capitulate to President Clinton, not offering a clear legislative agenda for Republicans and not communicating a clear political message. '' The anger grew in the last few days when the speaker approved a $10-million anti-Clinton advertising campaign that allowed Democrats to turn the election into a referendum on Gingrich, who has never been nearly as popular with the public as Clinton has been. He contrasted the lack of focus this year with the Contract With America that proved so successful in 1994. ``I'd like to see who it was that had a plan that they were confident over the last 60 days would have been more successful and why they didn't share it.

 anti-summary: 
 But by his own admission, Gingrich's vision seems to have blurred this time around, costing Republicans a net of five seats in Tuesday's election and leaving the party's narrow governing majority even narrower. The disappointing election results also left Gingrich open to a fractious challenge for his post as speaker. '' Top Republican aides, speaking anonymously, were even blunter. '' But Gingrich has built support among moderates, and some perceived the election as a repudiation of the conservatives. ``To maintain our majority, we've got to moderate some of our views,'' Boehlert said. Thomas Mann, a Congressional scholar at the Brookings Institution, said that moderates supported Gingrich in part because no appealing alternative had emerged. ``They know he sees the broader world and is prepared to moderate if it makes sense,'' Mann said. '' The anger grew in the last few days when the speaker approved a $10-million anti-Clinton advertising campaign that allowed Democrats to turn the election into a referendum on Gingrich, who has never been nearly as popular with the public as Clinton has been. '' But he said Republicans should have ``maniacally focused'' on a basic message of cutting taxes, saving Social Security and preventing drug abuse, and campaigned aggressively on those themes. But Gingrich also seemed aware of the mounting concern about his leadership, repeatedly casting the election results as a victory for his leadership team because Republicans had stayed in the majority for three elections in a row for the first time in 70 years.

 textrank summary:
 His vision brought the GOP to the majority in Congress in 1994 and made him the first Republican House Speaker in 40 years. But by his own admission, Gingrich's vision seems to have blurred this time around, costing Republicans a net of five seats in Tuesday's election and leaving the party's narrow governing majority even narrower. '' Top Republican aides, speaking anonymously, were even blunter. '' A possible slate could contain the names of Reps. Robert L. Livingston of Louisiana to replace Gingrich, Steve Largent of Oklahoma to replace Dick Armey of Texas as majority leader, and Jennifer Dunn of Washington to replace John A. Boehner of Ohio as conference chairman. Rep. Tom DeLay of Texas, the majority whip, was said to be secure. ``The reality is this: Our majority keeps shrinking,'' Canady said. ``To maintain our majority, we've got to moderate some of our views,'' Boehlert said. Thomas Mann, a Congressional scholar at the Brookings Institution, said that moderates supported Gingrich in part because no appealing alternative had emerged. He's nurtured a relationship with them. ``But voters are more sophisticated than that, and Republicans better have something to say about where we're going.
