summary: 
 Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, 72, said last week he could ``drop dead'' at any time. But because of the large number of candidates for the deputy's job within the ruling United Malays National Organization, a decision was not expected quickly. The party leaders, who have been conducting a national campaign to explain to Malaysians why the popular Anwar was fired Sept. 2, will also confer on what to do now that the High Court judge has banned all comments on Anwar's guilt or innocence. The ruling coalition had scheduled a giant rally in the capital Saturday, aimed at drawing in the youth to whom Anwar's campaign of reform has the most appeal. ``They decided that the government should be brought down through demonstrations, riots,'' the Bernama news agency quoted Mahathir as saying in Sarawak state on Borneo Island. The United States would downgrade President Bill Clinton's visit to Kuala Lumpur next month if Anwar continued to be mistreated, the Wall Street Journal quoted an official in Washington as saying. He has pleaded innocent to all charges, including another corruption count and five charges of sodomy. He faces 14 years in prison and a fine on each corruption count and 20 years, plus whipping, on each sexual charge, if convicted. Rafidah Aziz, the international trade and industry minister, and Tengku Razaleigh Hamzah, a former finance minister, were also in the running. 

 anti-summary: 
 But because of the large number of candidates for the deputy's job within the ruling United Malays National Organization, a decision was not expected quickly. The two had differed over economic policy and Anwar has said Mahathir feared he was a threat to his 17-year rule. On Tuesday, Mahathir denounced demonstrators who had flocked by the thousands to the streets of downtown Kuala Lumpur in recent weeks, calling them part of a plot to topple the government. ``They decided that the government should be brought down through demonstrations, riots,'' the Bernama news agency quoted Mahathir as saying in Sarawak state on Borneo Island. He was expected to return to Kuala Lumpur later Tuesday to chair the UMNO meeting. After Anwar appeared in court with a black eye, bruised face, neck and arms, his case drew international attention, particularly from the presidents of the Philippines and Indonesia, who have raised the possibility they might not attend an 18-nation summit in Malaysia next month. Wearing a neck brace Monday after a court-ordered hospital checkup, Anwar was ordered to stand trial Nov. 2 on four charges of abusing his powers to interfere with a police investigation. His trial is to halt on Nov. 14 and resume after the APEC meetings. Anwar was arrested Sept. 20 under the Internal Security Act, which allows jail without trial.

 textrank summary:
  The leaders of Malaysia's ruling party met Tuesday to discuss a replacement for ousted deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim, who faces trial next month in a case that will test the country's legal system. The party leaders, who have been conducting a national campaign to explain to Malaysians why the popular Anwar was fired Sept. 2, will also confer on what to do now that the High Court judge has banned all comments on Anwar's guilt or innocence. But he fired his protege from his posts as deputy prime minister and finance minister on grounds he was morally unfit to lead. The two had differed over economic policy and Anwar has said Mahathir feared he was a threat to his 17-year rule. ``They decided that the government should be brought down through demonstrations, riots,'' the Bernama news agency quoted Mahathir as saying in Sarawak state on Borneo Island. He was expected to return to Kuala Lumpur later Tuesday to chair the UMNO meeting. He has pleaded innocent to all charges, including another corruption count and five charges of sodomy. Other top contenders included Mahathir's confidant Daim Zainuddin, a former finance minister brought back into the Cabinet in June as ``special functions minister'' in charge of economic recovery. Rafidah Aziz, the international trade and industry minister, and Tengku Razaleigh Hamzah, a former finance minister, were also in the running. 
