summary: 
 Asia-Pacific leaders are scheduled to meet next month in Malaysia for an annual economics meeting. Last week, Philippine President Joseph Estrada said he was considering not going to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum because of Anwar Ibrahim's arrest. ``I'm very concerned over how my friend Anwar Ibrahim has been treated,'' Habibie was quoted as saying by the English-language newspaper The Nation. In a court appearance last week, Anwar's face was bruised and he said he had been beaten by police, heightening international attention to his case. '' On attending the APEC meeting, he said, ``It's difficult for me.

 anti-summary: 
  Indonesian President B.J. Habibie finds attending a summit of Asia-Pacific leaders ``difficult'' because of his concerns about the arrest of Malaysia's former deputy prime minister, a Thai newspaper reported Sunday. Asia-Pacific leaders are scheduled to meet next month in Malaysia for an annual economics meeting. Last week, Philippine President Joseph Estrada said he was considering not going to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum because of Anwar Ibrahim's arrest. ``I'm very concerned over how my friend Anwar Ibrahim has been treated,'' Habibie was quoted as saying by the English-language newspaper The Nation.

 textrank summary:
 Habibie finds attending a summit of Asia-Pacific leaders ``difficult'' because of his concerns about the arrest of Malaysia's former deputy prime minister, a Thai newspaper reported Sunday. ``I'm very concerned over how my friend Anwar Ibrahim has been treated,'' Habibie was quoted as saying by the English-language newspaper The Nation. '' On attending the APEC meeting, he said, ``It's difficult for me. '' But he said he would consult parliament, adding, ``I'm not coming personally but as the president of 211 million people of Indonesia. '' Like Estrada, Habibie served as his country's vice president when Anwar was deputy prime minister, making them counterparts on the international affairs circuit. 
