summary: 
  Bruises on the face of jailed dissident Anwar Ibrahim, splashed on newspaper front pages for two days and downloaded from the Internet, are blemishing the image of Malaysian police. After first suggesting that the former deputy prime minister had beaten himself on the face, neck and arms during 10 days in police custody, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad called for an investigation of the wounds Anwar displayed in court Tuesday and Wednesday. ``We can't accept this and we will undertake full investigations,'' Mahathir was quoted as saying in Thursday's New Straits Times. ``The police cannot harm their detainees in the course of their interrogation. '' Mahathir fired Anwar on Sept. 2 from his posts as deputy prime minister and finance minister, saying he was morally unfit for office. The two had differed over economic policy as the country veered into recession and Anwar has said the 72-year-old Mahathir feared him as an alternative leader. Local newspapers that are normally pro-Mahathir have splashed close-up photos of Anwar's badly bruised face for two days. People are peering at the pictures, downloading copies from the Internet, discussing whether Mahathir, who also oversees the police as home affairs minister, knew what was happening to the man he had once groomed as his successor. It was not the first time that a Malaysian has said he was tortured or mistreated in police custody.

 anti-summary: 
 ``The police cannot harm their detainees in the course of their interrogation. People are peering at the pictures, downloading copies from the Internet, discussing whether Mahathir, who also oversees the police as home affairs minister, knew what was happening to the man he had once groomed as his successor. It was not the first time that a Malaysian has said he was tortured or mistreated in police custody. If Mahathir did not know of the alleged beatings, it suggests the police acted on their own. But police have banned her from speaking publicly. On Thursday she was summoned for the third time to police headquarters for questioning about an interview with regional television network CNBC Asia. '' Three Malaysian police officers traveled to Singapore Thursday to ask CNBC news anchors how they had arranged to get the Sept. 21 interview with Azizah and one with Anwar on Sept. 3. Anwar, who pleaded innocent this week to five charges of sodomy and five of corruption, told the court that police beat him the night he was arrested, ``until blood seeped down my nose,'' leaving him half-conscious. On Thursday, the Indonesian government, where security forces have been accused for years of mistreating prisoners, said it regretted the reports about Anwar's injuries and that the allegations have placed in doubt a visit to Malaysia by President B.J.

 textrank summary:
 ``The police cannot harm their detainees in the course of their interrogation. People are peering at the pictures, downloading copies from the Internet, discussing whether Mahathir, who also oversees the police as home affairs minister, knew what was happening to the man he had once groomed as his successor. It was not the first time that a Malaysian has said he was tortured or mistreated in police custody. Anwar's bruises raise ``alarming questions about the state of governance in the country,'' said Lim Kit Siang, leader of the opposition Democratic Action Party. If Mahathir did not know of the alleged beatings, it suggests the police acted on their own. Before his arrest, Anwar designated his wife, Azizah Ismail, as the leader of his new ``reform'' movement. But police have banned her from speaking publicly. '' Three Malaysian police officers traveled to Singapore Thursday to ask CNBC news anchors how they had arranged to get the Sept. 21 interview with Azizah and one with Anwar on Sept. 3. On Thursday, the Indonesian government, where security forces have been accused for years of mistreating prisoners, said it regretted the reports about Anwar's injuries and that the allegations have placed in doubt a visit to Malaysia by President B.J.
