summary: 
 ``Frankly speaking there is no reason to say that just because one man was arrested for something ... that it should bring any unrest,'' trade minister Rafidah Aziz said. ``Leaders come and go. They even get sacked in all countries of the world. They even die,'' she told a news conference in Manila, where she attended a meeting of Association of Southeast Asian Nations economic ministers. At least two ASEAN leaders, Philippine President Joseph Estrada and Indonesian President B.J.

 anti-summary: 
  The arrest of former Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim won't lead to massive social unrest or frighten away investors, Malaysia's trade minister said Thursday. Anwar was fired by Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad on Sept. 2 after the two differed on economic policy. '' In recent visits to Chicago, New York, Houston and Boston, she said potential investors asked her about Anwar's arrest but were still interested in investing in Malaysia. In recent appearances in court, where he is facing charges of corruption and illegal homosexual acts, he was seen with a black eye and a neck brace. The Philippine leader said he was considering skipping a summit of Asia-Pacific leaders in Malaysia in November to protest the arrest of Anwar, whom he described as a personal friend.

 textrank summary:
  The arrest of former Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim won't lead to massive social unrest or frighten away investors, Malaysia's trade minister said Thursday. ``Frankly speaking there is no reason to say that just because one man was arrested for something ... that it should bring any unrest,'' trade minister Rafidah Aziz said. They even get sacked in all countries of the world. They even die,'' she told a news conference in Manila, where she attended a meeting of Association of Southeast Asian Nations economic ministers. The Philippine leader said he was considering skipping a summit of Asia-Pacific leaders in Malaysia in November to protest the arrest of Anwar, whom he described as a personal friend.
