summary: 
 '' In assuming the role of foreign minister, however, he would be forced to abandon his public opposition to Netanyahu's decision to withdraw from another 13 percent of the Palestinian territory _ even if he votes against the accord. Palestinian leaders and Israeli leftists were divided in their reactions, in similar ways. Some professed to be aghast, and some, like Nabil Sha'ath, the Palestinian transportation minister, said they were willing to ``forget history'' if Sharon's appointment provided Netanyahu the political backbone to sign a deal. Instead, it was decided on Thursday that the nature reserve would instead be on the slopes of the Hebron hills, much closer to existing Jewish settlements. '' asked Uzi Benziman, an editorial board member of the newspaper Haaretz and author of a critical biography of Sharon. So it's really quite an intelligent move, suggesting that Netanyahu means business in trying to get an agreement. Sharon, a member of the old guard, has a complicated political past, highlighted by a string of military victories, and checkered, to many, by his indirect role, as defense minister, in the Lebanese Christian Phalangist massacre of unarmed civilians in the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps in Lebanon in 1982. Still, they would not connect their change of heart to the nomination of Sharon. Also Friday, in the continuing clashes between Palestinian youths and soldiers in the divided city of Hebron, 32 Palestinians were lightly injured by rubber bullets after the funeral of a Palestinian protester shot dead on Thursday. ``Are you willing to sign on that?

 anti-summary: 
 With his appointment, Sharon, 70, an ardent advocate for Jewish settlements in the West Bank, is expected to quell domestic opposition to the concessions that Netanyahu is supposedly prepared to make at a peace summit conference in the Washington area next week. ``Sharon has never hidden his beliefs,'' he continued, ``and his words have influenced the way that the redeployment will be carried out if not its extent. ``Who is the right wing now if Sharon is in the foreign ministry and negotiating with the Palestinians? It means he wants to continue on the path of non-negotiations, because he wants to continue to be prime minister at any cost. Many Israelis, even those who despise his politics, see him as a strong, experienced figure who knows his mind and who is capable of being moderate when he has power. ``But it will have no effect on how we see the peace agreement. Our concern there is on whether any of the 160 Jewish settlements are endangered. '' The appointment of Sharon comes against a backdrop of violence that has erupted this week. Friday, a 19-year-old Israeli soldier, Michal Adato, was stabbed to death by a Palestinian man as she got off a bus in her hometown, the settlement of Tomer in the Jordan Valley. ``He has recognized that the next redeployment is inevitable if he doesn't want to be seen as contributing to the wave of political violence that would follow a failure.

 textrank summary:
 For months, Sharon, who is currently the minister of national infrastructures, has maintained that redeploying Israeli troops from more than an additional 9 percent of the West Bank would be a ``national disaster. Some professed to be aghast, and some, like Nabil Sha'ath, the Palestinian transportation minister, said they were willing to ``forget history'' if Sharon's appointment provided Netanyahu the political backbone to sign a deal. Many Israeli political observers believe that Netanyahu has eviscerated his right-wing opposition with this appointment, signaling that he genuinely intends to bring home a peace agreement. It means he wants to continue on the path of non-negotiations, because he wants to continue to be prime minister at any cost. '' Sharon declined to be interviewed Friday because his appointment must still be approved by the Cabinet on Tuesday, an approval that is expected. At the most recent party convention, he said that Netanyahu didn't know his right hand from his left, which the prime minister dismissed Friday as a comment made ``in the height of political arguments. Netanyahu then created a Cabinet job, the minister of infrastructures, especially for Sharon. ``Appointing Sharon is a political step we like very much,'' said Shaul Yahalom, the minister of transportation and a leader of the National Religious Party. '' The appointment of Sharon comes against a backdrop of violence that has erupted this week. But he doesn't have the domestic political power to carry out the big decision on his own.
