summary: 
  Top finance officials from 14 countries in the Asia-Pacific region advised Asia's battered economies on Sunday to adopt further reforms in their effort to restore stability. Many of Asia's economies have plunged into recession since that agreement. The worsening financial gloom is likely to dominate talks at next week's summit in Kuala Lumpur of leaders from the 18-nation Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. Stanley Fischer, deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, noted that some countries have already reformed their banking sectors. ``These are not easy things to do,'' he said.

 anti-summary: 
  Top finance officials from 14 countries in the Asia-Pacific region advised Asia's battered economies on Sunday to adopt further reforms in their effort to restore stability. Among the necessary steps is for countries to restructure their economies and corporations to make them less susceptible to abuse by narrow political interests, the officials suggested. Collapsed currencies, weakened demand and higher unemployment now characterize a region that once boasted some of the world's highest economic growth rates. Stanley Fischer, deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, noted that some countries have already reformed their banking sectors. Anwar denies the allegations and says they were fabricated because Mahathir considered his popularity a threat to the prime minister's 17-year rule. 

 textrank summary:
 Many of Asia's economies have plunged into recession since that agreement. Collapsed currencies, weakened demand and higher unemployment now characterize a region that once boasted some of the world's highest economic growth rates. Stanley Fischer, deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, noted that some countries have already reformed their banking sectors. Meanwhile, Malaysia's most prominent dissident predicted that the country's prime minister would declare ``a state of emergency'' after the APEC meeting ends in Kuala Lumpur, a report said Sunday. Anwar denies the allegations and says they were fabricated because Mahathir considered his popularity a threat to the prime minister's 17-year rule. 
