summary: 
 Representatives of the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank took part in the talks. If instability continues in Brazil it could affect Argentina, its main trading partner, and other Latin American economies. Despite the re-election of Fernando Henrique Cardoso for a second term as president and the announcement Oct. 8 that Brazil and the IMF had agreed on the broad outlines of a financial assistance package, investors continued to withdraw large sums of money from Brazil. '' The statement reiterated Brazil's goal of achieving a primary budget surplus of 2.6 percent of its gross domestic product in 1999, 2.8 percent in 2000 and 3.0 percent in 2001 which would '' fulfill the government target of stabilizing the ratio of net consolidated public sector debt to GDP by the year 2000.

 anti-summary: 
  Brazil and the International Monetary Fund moved closer Tuesday to agreement on an expected dlrs 30 billion rescue package for the world's ninth-largest economy. Brazil has lost about dlrs 25 billion in foreign currency reserves since August when Russia defaulted on its debts and sparked a new crisis of confidence in emerging market countries. Cardoso is preparing an emergency program of budget cuts to restore investor confidence and prevent a devaluation of the country's currency. '' The statement reiterated Brazil's goal of achieving a primary budget surplus of 2.6 percent of its gross domestic product in 1999, 2.8 percent in 2000 and 3.0 percent in 2001 which would '' fulfill the government target of stabilizing the ratio of net consolidated public sector debt to GDP by the year 2000.

 textrank summary:
 The statement was issued after weekend talks between IMF officials and a Brazilian delegation headed by Pedro Parente, executive secretary of the Finance Ministry. Cardoso is preparing an emergency program of budget cuts to restore investor confidence and prevent a devaluation of the country's currency. Investors want Cardoso to outline the plans this week but he is expected to wait until after Sunday's second round of elections for state governors, whose support he needs for his budget cuts. '' The two sides are to continue their talks ``with the objective of reaching early agreement,'' the statement said. 
