summary: 
  There's no such thing as a free lunch any longer in Brazil, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso is telling government workers. So goodbye to the afternoon courtesy snack of sandwiches, fruit and juice, a palace tradition. The price of a buffet offered employees for lunch was raised from dlrs 6 to dlrs 8.50. On a trip to a summit in Portugal this month, he took a delegation of just eight, half the usual number. The savings at the palace could come to nearly dlrs 145,000 a month, said Nilson Rebello, chief administrator of the president's office. The plan is part of a deal with the International Monetary Fund for a rescue package estimated at dlrs 30 billion. The money would strengthen and, hopefully, restore investor confidence in the world's ninth-largest economy, now at the center of the financial crisis buffeting developing nations for more than a year. The leftist Workers Party said the government was making a big deal of insignificant savings while it failed to cut other dubious projects, such as a dlrs 800,000 moat being built around Congress to keep protesters from easily entering the building. To rein in the free-spending habits of provincial politicians, Cardoso reportedly wants to hold local governments to bimonthly limits on spending.

 anti-summary: 
 Eager to bolster the sagging economy, Cardoso wants to slash dlrs 19 billion from the budget deficit, and he's beginning by paring perks for the more than 2,000 workers at the presidential palace in Brasilia, the capital. Sure, it's not much when compared with a deficit of some dlrs 65 billion, or 7 percent of economic output. The price of a buffet offered employees for lunch was raised from dlrs 6 to dlrs 8.50. Cardoso himself has promised to travel less and more cheaply. The savings at the palace could come to nearly dlrs 145,000 a month, said Nilson Rebello, chief administrator of the president's office. It is believed to include a spate of new taxes on fuel, income, personal fortunes and bank transactions. The plan is part of a deal with the International Monetary Fund for a rescue package estimated at dlrs 30 billion. Despite Cardoso's efforts, many Brazilians were less than impressed by the palace penny-pinching. In Brasilia, Joaquim Roriz has promised civil service raises, bonuses and new jobs that his opponent estimates would cost some dlrs 1 billion.

 textrank summary:
  There's no such thing as a free lunch any longer in Brazil, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso is telling government workers. Sure, it's not much when compared with a deficit of some dlrs 65 billion, or 7 percent of economic output. But as Cardoso readies a package of spending cuts and tax increases, he clearly wants to show Brazilians that economy starts at home. The price of a buffet offered employees for lunch was raised from dlrs 6 to dlrs 8.50. Cardoso himself has promised to travel less and more cheaply. The savings at the palace could come to nearly dlrs 145,000 a month, said Nilson Rebello, chief administrator of the president's office. Despite Cardoso's efforts, many Brazilians were less than impressed by the palace penny-pinching. Roriz hasn't explained where the money would come from. Federal money would automatically be cut off if spending gets out of hand. 
